http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/01/petr-cech-chelsea-departure

Petr Cech refuses to rule out departure from Chelsea


Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech has said he has “no reason to panic, pack up and leave” Stamford Bridge, but would “not exclude anything” after beginning the season on the substitutes’ bench.
 
Thibaut Courtois has been selected in Chelsea’s starting XI by José Mourinho in their first three league games – a situation reminiscent of when Cech was installed as the club’s No1 ahead of the established Carlo Cudicini after his signing from Rennes in June 2004.
 
Speaking while on national team duty with the Czech Republic before Wednesday’s friendly with the USA, he said: “I’ve been at the club for 10 years, the situation [of being on the bench] is now new to me. The three opening matches I could not play for the team. I have no reason to panic, pack up and leave. I am a Chelsea player, where I have two more years of contract.”
 
However, the 32-year-old went on to confuse matters, stating that “the offer would have to be right”.
 
“In football, nothing can be predicted in advance, nothing is ever perfect,” said Cech. “A lot of players go on representative duty, yet still many transfer clubs. The offer would have to be right for everyone. I do not exclude anything [or] know the answer.”
 
Ashley Cole and Frank Lampard – two other mainstays of the Chelsea side Cech has been part of for 10 years – left during the summer, showing Mourinho has little room for sentiment in his second spell as Chelsea manager.
 
David Luiz, Romelu Lukaku, Demba Ba and Samuel Eto’o have also departed, with Loïc Rémy almost certainly Chelsea’s final addition of the transfer window.
 
Mourinho had long stated that the window was closed for the club, having completed deals for Diego Costa, Cesc Fàbregas, Filipe Luís and the returning Didier Drogba in the summer.
 
Fernando Torres’s departure to Milan for the final two years of his five-and-a-half-year Chelsea contract – in effect ending his time at Stamford Bridge following his £50m move from Liverpool in January 2011 – necessitated the arrival of another striker, but even then Mourinho moved swiftly to sign Rémy from QPR for a reported fee of £10.5m.
 
Many of those not in contention for a first-team place have left on loan – 21 in all after Marco van Ginkel, the midfielder who spent most of last season out with a serious knee injury, joined Torres in Milan.
 
The Dutchman’s departure means Chelsea fulfil the Premier League’s homegrown player rule and will have the maximum 17 foreign players in their 25-man squad. Of the loan departures only Patrick Bamford, whose initial loan to Middlesbrough runs until January, did not leave on a season-long deal.


