http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/sep/15/meet-ludogorets-bulgarians-upset-liverpool-champions-league

Meet Ludogorets: the Bulgarians out to cause an upset against Liverpool | Metodi Shumanov


The team Liverpool will face on their return to the Champions League, the Bulgarian side Ludogorets, come from the smallest town involved in this season’s competition and have one of the smallest budgets. Liverpool, though, will underestimate them at their peril.
 
Last season Ludogorets, who were founded only 13 years ago but are bankrolled by the multi-millionaire Kiril Domuschiev, topped their Europa League group ahead of PSV Eindhoven, who they beat home and away, and defeated Lazio before finally succumbing to Valencia in the last 16. Worryingly for Liverpool, Ludogorets picked up a new signing along the way as Domuschiev was so impressed by Lazio’s eagle Olympia that he bought his team their own eagle and named it after the Roman goddess of luck Fortuna. Now he is hoping this will bring him luck at Anfield.
 
Luck – and the remarkable performance of the Romanian defender Cosmin Moti – was certainly on Ludogorets’s side in the Champions League play-off against Steaua Bucharest, when their goalkeeper Vladislav Stoyanov was sent off and replaced by the defender as they had already used their three substitutes. The tie went to extra time, and penalties, where Moti – who had never been in goal before – saved two spot-kicks and scored one himself. Cue wild celebrations and Domuschiev promising to name a stand in the redeveloped stadium in honour of the defender who had, for unknown reasons, recently watched Jerzy Dudek’s heroic performance for Liverpool in the 2005 Champions League final against Milan in Istanbul.
 
One sour note from the performance, though, was a Uefa sanction for racism among both the Ludogorets and Steaua fans which will mean the Bulgarian side will have to close a section of their stadium in their first home match against Real Madrid in the Champions League in October.
 
Against Liverpool, Moti will be back in defence at Anfield and is one of the key players in Georgi Dermendzhiev’s 4-2-3-1 formation. He brings stability in defence while the beating heart of Ludogorets’ midfield is the captain, Svetoslav Dyakov. He is involved in almost every attacking build-up of his team.
 
But even though the side has brought success to the small town of Razgrad – population 32,500 – near the Romanian border, not everyone is rejoicing at the nouveau riche club’s success. In fact, on Tuesday, quite a few Bulgarians will be supporting Liverpool. One of those will be the CSKA Sofia coach, Stoycho Mladenov, whose club is the record holder of 31 titles in the Bulgarian First Division. Back in 1982 Mladenov was the star striker of the CSKA team which defeated the holders Liverpool in the quarter-finals of the European Cup with Mladenov scoring twice. “Next to CSKA my favourite team is Liverpool, so I hope they win their games against Ludogorets,” Mladenov said and was promptly accused of lack of patriotism by some Ludogorets officials.
 
Ludogorets play their home European ties 170 miles from Razgrad in Sofia – because their own ground does not comply with Uefa regulations – and have frequently found there are pockets of fans there who support their opponents, as was the case when CSKA Sofia fans supported Steaua in the Champions League play-off.
 
After the game the Ludogorets owner Domuschiev called the CSKA supporters “poor souls” but the story of fans revolting against a new – and rich – kid on the block is not novel. CSKA and Levski Sofia fans were always going to be hostile towards Ludogorets.
 
The club was founded in 2001 and did not reach the first division for 10 years but once they got there they did not hang around. Just as Kaiserslautern did in 1998, Ludogorets won the title straight after promotion despite the fact the odds of them doing so were 50-1 at the start of the season. Since then, Ludogorets have won six more trophies on home soil, including two trebles (title, cup and Supercup). At the moment they are unstoppable.
 
The unexpected rise of Ludogorets is strongly connected to the financial power of Domuschiev. He is thought to be one of the richest businessmen in Bulgaria with his wealth estimated at €500m (£400m), and his pharmaceutical business is based in Razgrad. Despite the owner’s wealth, Ludogorets have a long way to go until they can compare themselves to the super powers of European football. They operate on an annual budget of €5m – not bad for a Bulgarian club, but not a patch on some of their newfound Champions League colleagues.
 
Football, though, is not always about money and Ludogorets, after all, already have Fortuna on their side.


