http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/22/the-rumour-mill-tottenham-federico-fazio

Football transfer rumours: Tottenham to sign Federico Fazio from Sevilla?


Paris-Saint-Germain and Monaco are preparing to do battle over Petr Cech, who is suddenly yesterday’s man at Chelsea, having been usurped by Thibaut Courtois. The Pensioners are quite happy with Mark “I’m 42 years old you know” Schwarzer as back-up, and need to get shot of one of their foreign stars anyway to fit in with Premier League and Champions League stockpiling regulations.
 
Chelsea, who until today hadn’t been referred to as The Pensioners in the national press since 1953, are also considering what they should do with Fernando Torres. The main two options on the table seem to be boiling him down for glue and then sniffing it in the hope that the resulting intoxicative haze will wipe out all memory of that £50m deal, or shooing him away to Roma in exchange for the 23-year-old striker Mattia Destro. Pot’s on the stove, just in case a compromise can’t be struck with the Italians over Torres’s exorbitant wages.
 
Manchester United are trying to offload Anderson to Porto or Sporting Lisbon. They want money for him, it says here. United are meanwhile still interested in Ángel di María and Sami Khedira. This has already been reported ad nauseam, but if we keep saying stuff like that perhaps we can finally pique dithering Old Trafford paper shuffler Ed Woodward into doing something.
 
Woodward had better be quick in getting his feet off the desk and making a couple of phone calls to Real Madrid, even if it’s just so he can say he tried, for Arsenal are also interested in Khedira and have a glamorous run to this season’s Champions League round of 16 to offer the player to boot.
 
The Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger might be attempting to procure fancy attack-minded stars, but his counterpart across the road can’t be bothered with such fripperies. Mauricio Pochettino, organiser supreme at Tottenham, wants another defender. He’s interested in the Sevilla centre-back Federico Fazio, as he pursues his dream of one day ending a league season having conceded no goals. Don’t put it past him, he was getting there at Southampton.
 
Manchester City have left Micah Richards outside on the street, like an old chest of drawers or bedside table, hoping someone will take him away. West Ham’s Sam Allardyce and Newcastle manager Alan Pardew have been walking up and down the road once or twice, thinking about making off with him, whistling innocently. City also want shot of Matija Nastasic, but he’s going on eBay where he’ll fetch a few quid. Juventus and Roma are loading up £12m on PayPal, ready to do battle.
 
And 20 years ago, Blackburn Rovers spent £5m to make the Norwich City striker Chris Sutton the most expensive player in England, at the start of a season which would see them crowned Premier League champions. How times change: two decades on, they’re faffing around in the Championship, a division below Burnley, and Hull City are preparing a £10m-plus bid to take away their figurehead hit man Jordan Rhodes. Oh dear. Still, their new powder-blue 1880s throwback shirts are the nicest in the country, so the season’s not a complete write-off.


