http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/30/jose-mourinho-maribor-chelsea-key-champions-league

José Mourinho: two ties against Maribor key to Chelsea’s progress


José Mourinho believes victories over Maribor in Chelsea’s next two Champions League games will prove sufficient to secure his team’s passage into the knockout phase after the London club deflated Sporting’s ambitions by securing victory in Lisbon.
 
The visitors dominated against opponents playing their first home game in this competition proper for five years, missing too many chances for comfort but securing the success courtesy of Nemanja Matic’s first-half header. That was enough to achieve the first positive result in Group G, with Schalke held at home by the Slovenians, and ensured Chelsea have now established themselves at the top of the section.
 
Asked whether he was concerned at his team’s profligacy against Sporting, Mourinho said: “I know but it’s three points. Three points. This is not a knockout game where goals are fundamental. Games like this can end up 4-0 or 5-0 but it ended up 1-0 and as a well-managed win. This is about points. We lost two points at home [against Schalke in the opening match] and today we recovered that.
              
“Because of the other draw we put ourselves not in a ‘comfortable’ position but in one where we can control our own destiny. We now play two games against Maribor and, if we manage to secure six points, that would be 10 and job done. Now we have just to focus on beating Maribor, which I believe is not easy. To draw in Germany means something.”
 
The Chelsea manager was forced to keep Diego Costa on the pitch for the entirety, given his team’s inability to kill off their young opponents, with the club’s medical department to assess the state of his left hamstring during the squad’s warm-down session at Cobham on Wednesday as they begin preparations for the visit of Arsenal at the weekend. Mourinho was relieved his players emerged unscathed from this occasionally bruising contest, with Eden Hazard in particular the subject of numerous heavy challenges from Sporting’s players.
 
“Maybe those were not yellow cards but maybe orange – but certainly not red,” said the Chelsea manager. “It’s understandable: they are a young team, with young players, and this was a big match for them, so there must be some frustration because we controlled most parts of the game. It’s understandable. No problem. The game was hard but was correct, with the referee controlling it with yellow cards. No need for red. Everything okay.”
 
The Chelsea captain, John Terry, spoke of his pride at featuring in this competition for the 100th time. “That 100 club is select group,” added Mourinho. “Only very few people can play 100 games in the Champions League and all for the same club. He may not have been captain in all those games but surely he has been in most of them. He’s an historic player and will rightly go down in the history of the club.”


