http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/13/liverpool-philippe-coutinho-champions-league-ludogorets

Liverpool and Philippe Coutinho ready for return to Champions League


Things are slotting into place for Philippe Coutinho. Not only are Liverpool back in the Champions League but Dunga, in charge of Brazil for a second time as successor to Luiz Felipe Scolari, has recalled him into the national team.
 
This time last season, Liverpool’s capture from Internazionale was fretting that he might not break into the Brazil squad in time for the World Cup. Nor did he, though earlier this week he was able to post an Instagram of himself with his friend Neymar after appearing in a friendly against Ecuador. At 22 the midfielder still has time on his side, and the mood in his home country is for a clean break and a fresh start. All he has to do now is forget the television nightmare that was Brazil 1 Germany 7, along with the rest of the football community back home.
 
“As a football fan and a Brazilian, it was tough to watch the team lose at home in that way,” he admits. “It made me more motivated, that’s about the only good thing I can say about it, but it belongs in the past now. We have to look to the future and see how we can improve. It’s a dream for me personally to be back in the national squad, it’s the dream of any Brazilian player, but the most difficult part comes next.
 
“What I’ve got to do now is stay in the squad until the next World Cup. I am desperate to do that, especially after watching what happened in the summer, but at the same time I do not want to look too far ahead. I am very happy to be back in the squad, I had a good week with the team and I am pleased to be back playing.”
 
Coutinho is not a newcomer to the Champions League. He made a handful of appearances with Inter, though what will be a novel experience on Tuesday, when Ludogorets are the visitors, is stepping out at Anfield for a European occasion. Champions League nights can be quite special at Liverpool and a four-year absence should guarantee a heightened atmosphere, even if the Bulgarian champions are merely a preliminary to the main event of Real Madrid next month.
 
“I have heard a lot about the European nights at this club,” Coutinho says. “I can only imagine the atmosphere will be fabulous, because it seems to me that the atmosphere at Anfield is always fabulous, even for ordinary games in the afternoon. I am aware of Liverpool’s history in the competition as well and the players are just as excited as the fans at being back in the event. We are confident we can make it to the next stage but we know it will be tough. Not just against Real Madrid but Ludogorets and Basel too. We are looking forward to getting off to a good start and we know we will have the fans behind us.”
 
Liverpool’s history in the competition, particularly the ever more unlikely sequence of events that led to victory in Istanbul in 2005, has made people wary of backing against them. Despite a break from Europe and having a coach and a majority of players who have never experienced Champions League football, Liverpool are considered among the favourites. Not just to get out of their group but to make progress in the knockout stages.
 
“The fans might think that but I don’t think the team should fall into the trap of looking so far ahead,” Coutinho says. “It is better to play the games first and talk later. I believe we have a strong squad, new players have been brought in and we are in a good position to perform well in the Champions League. I don’t think we need to be regarding ourselves as favourites or anything like that.”
 
Coutinho was 12 at the time of the Istanbul final and did not watch the game on TV because he was at school. “I know the story of the game, of course,” he says. “Everybody does. And I must say that at the time I felt sorry for Kaká. When Champions League games are shown live in Brazil it is in the afternoon. Even so they have become very popular in the last few years. People watch it as much as they watch Brazilian football, especially when Brazilian players are involved, such as Kaká or Ronaldinho.”
 
Though briefly a training ground ally of Mario Balotelli when their paths last crossed in Milan, and a fan of the Italy striker as well as the other recruits Brendan Rodgers has brought to Liverpool in the summer, Coutinho believes the player who could really make Europe sit up and take notice is Raheem Sterling. “He is in a very good moment and he is in great shape,” he says. “I have been hearing people talking about his performance for England the other night and I cannot say I am surprised because we train together every day. I know his potential and I know the pace he has. I do not have the speed to catch him!”
 
Like Coutinho himself, Sterling broke through for his club last season and is poised to do the same on a bigger stage. “It was a good season for the whole team, not just the two of us,” the Brazilian says. “I believe I took the next step, which was good for me, but it was just as pleasing that the team as a whole was capable of doing what the manager was asking. I think Liverpool as a club is taking the next step and it is great to be a part of it.”


