http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/26/daniel-agger-liverpool-future-uncertain

Daniel Agger unsure of Liverpool future with transfer deadline looming


Daniel Agger has said his future at Liverpool remains uncertain with less than a week remaining of the transfer window.
 
The Anfield vice-captain has not featured for Brendan Rodgers’s team this season due to a knee injury suffered on the club’s pre-season tour of the United States, although his first-team prospects appear limited due to the £20m summer signing of Dejan Lovren from Southampton.
 
Agger was frustrated with his playing time under Rodgers before Lovren’s arrival but, despite being linked with Barcelona, Arsenal and Atlético Madrid this summer, Liverpool have not received a firm offer for the 29-year-old. “The future is complicated,” the defender told Jyllands-Posten. “There are a few things that has to be sorted and we have to take it from there. I actually don’t know what will happen. It is a bit up to Liverpool.
 
“I have had niggling injuries at the wrong times and I have to say that it is difficult to change the team when it is winning. I am not frustrated by that. I am frustrated the way it happened and the way it was handled.”
 
Agger was appointed Liverpool vice-captain last summer in the face of interest from Barcelona but did not appear to have Rodgers’s confidence during the challenge for the Premier League title. He denies, however, that he made an emotional appeal to the Liverpool manager during the US tour to be allowed to leave Anfield.
 
The Denmark international added: “There was nothing true in that story whatsoever. I went home from the US because I had problems with my knee and had had so for some time. Brendan Rodgers and I talk with honesty to each other but the last thing I will ever do is stand and whine in front of someone. Especially when it comes to football, because in football there is nothing to whine about.”
 
Lucas Leiva’s position at Liverpool is also in doubt. The Brazilian midfielder was not included among the substitutes for Liverpool’s 3-1 defeat at Manchester City on Monday and is also resigned to limited prospects this season.


