http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/29/mario-balotell-liverpool-debut-white-hart-lane-tottenham-brendan-rodgers

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers to unleash Mario Balotelli at Tottenham


Brendan Rodgers has no reservations over handing Mario Balotelli an immediate debut at Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, insisting the £16m striker will not become a distraction at Liverpool. “This won’t be the Mario Balotelli show every week,” the Liverpool manager said, twice, at his first pre-match press conference since signing the Italy international.
 
The 24-year-old has impressed in training since joining Liverpool on Monday and, having had a pre-season with Milan, he is likely to be given a start by Rodgers at White Hart Lane with the team lacking penetration in the 3-1 defeat at Manchester City. “He has looked great and, if I need to put him in, I will,” said Rodgers. “I won’t have any fears about that.”
 
Liverpool have already found Balotelli a place to live on Merseyside as they look to limit any exuberant behaviour away from the training ground on the striker’s part. Asked if the location was key for Balotelli, Rodgers snapped back: “It’s key for us. He is a Liverpool player. He is not in Manchester. He will be here with us.”
 
Rodgers also said that the soap opera that developed around Balotelli during his time at Manchester City will not be repeated at Anfield. “That won’t be here, it’s a different style,” he said. “There are different conditions at Liverpool. You have to behave in a certain way. Simple.”
 
Balotelli has admitted he erred in leaving the Premier League in January 2013 and Rodgers believes the Italian is determined to seize his second chance in English football. “He wants to prove how much he loves this country,” he said. “He left as a young guy a couple of years ago but he now really appreciates it.
 
“I have spoken at length to Mario since he has been here. He is definitely a mature boy. He is very bright. I think he now feels it is time to show the type of player he is. Everyone knows his quality and we have seen it this week in training. We have seen the sheer power and pace and the touch that he has. He wants to score goals and I think he wants to do it consistently now. That is why we are working really hard on his football. This won’t be the Mario Balotelli show every week. I will tell you that now. He is going to be treated the same as every player here, that’s for sure.”
 
Rodgers confirmed that Liverpool are more likely to offload players than make a 10th summer signing before the transfer window closes on Monday, with Daniel Agger, who is expected to join Brondby for an undisclosed fee, Lucas Leiva and Fabio Borini all possible departures. He warned: “Every player here knows their situation so if they’re here after that deadline then they’ve decided to stay but their game time will be very limited.”


