http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/30/liverpool-brendan-rodgers-mario-balotelli-tottenham

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers relishes Mario Balotelli challenge


The five-goal victory at White Hart Lane was one of Liverpool’s stand-out performances last season, effectively bringing André Villas-Boas’s 18-month reign at Tottenham to a close and underlining the readiness of Brendan Rodgers’ players to launch a genuine title challenge.
 
Rodgers would like more of the same this time, even though he acknowledges that days when a team gets everything so right are few and far between.
 
Particularly as a few significant changes have taken place at both clubs in the interim. Villas-Boas has been replaced by Mauricio Pochettino, who favours a pressing game similar to Liverpool’s own and has supervised a winning start to the season. Luis Suárez, scorer of two of the goals in last year’s rout, has now departed these shores, and last but by no means least his equally controversial successor is about to make his debut.
 
Liverpool have made other signings this summer, paying more money for Adam Lallana and Lazar Markovic, yet inevitably Mario Balotelli is already assuming his place as centre of attention. That is something his manager is intent on resisting – “I won’t be talking about Balotelli every week, I’ll tell you that now. The team is the most important thing here, it won’t turn into the Balotelli show” – though in point of fact he has talked of little else than his new £16m capture since the deal with Milan was first mooted.
 
In part that is due to persistent media questioning. For a while, at least, Balotelli’s return to England is going to be difficult for anyone to ignore, especially as his default “look at me” mode seems at odds with the strong team ethic Rodgers has instilled at the club. But it also happens to be the case that Rodgers has yet to refuse to answer any question on the subject, and gives every impression of enjoying talking up his new striker and looking forward to the challenge ahead.
 
“It is a challenge, and I relish it,” he says. “My eyes were totally wide open when I went for the player. I knew there would be loads of questions but I also knew I could knock them away. Just as with Luis Suárez, Mario will play wherever he is asked to play, and that will be wherever the team needs him. We just need to keep things simple and take away all the background noise that surrounds him. He might have been over-indulged in the past, but he wouldn’t be the only one. You see the same with British kids too, you can give players too much too early. The difference with Mario is that he’s a proven talent. He’s got a winning mentality. He has scored goals at the highest level and already won quite a lot.”
 
Rodgers felt that at the price Balotelli represented an unmissable opportunity, as well as a challenge that a coach with his background ought not to pass up. “We’ll give the kid a chance,” he says of the 24-year-old.
 
“He will make mistakes, but so will everyone else. He’s got wonderful charisma, a presence on the field and a great touch. When I brought Fabio Borini to Swansea he told me Mario, a team-mate from Italy Under-21s, was the best player he had ever come across. He’s a genuine world-class talent, and when you look at some of the other valuations at the moment £16m is an absolute steal. Of course, there are other aspects to the package apart from his ability, but that’s where I have to try and do my work.
 
“That’s what I feel I do best, the reason I’m here. I’ve always enjoyed working with young kids, helping children who were given no hope. I used to work with inner-city kids at Chelsea. Some of them had no parents, others had been completely written off, but everyone deserves a chance and it is gratifying when you see them flourish.”
 
Balotelli is hardly a kid any longer, even if he occasionally behaves like one, yet he has a certain innocent charm and an endearing, almost childlike enthusiasm. “He has been doing extra work after training, even in the rain,” Rodgers says. “He has already asked whether he could take the penalties. He’s very good at those, and he knows it. I told him Steven Gerrard is our penalty taker.”


