http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/18/iverpool-daniel-sturridge-injury-everton-derby

Liverpool count on Daniel Sturridge to shrug off injury for Everton match


Daniel Sturridge should be fit for next weekend’s Merseyside derby having responded well to treatment on the thigh injury sustained with England, the Liverpool manager, Brendan Rodgers, has confirmed.
 
The striker, who has missed Liverpool’s last two matches with an injury suffered while training with Roy Hodgson’s team, will again be sidelined against West Ham United on Saturday and had been doubtful for Everton’s visit to Anfield on 27 September. But Rodgers is confident the 25-year-old will be available for the first derby of the season following his return to light training this week, albeit wary of playing Sturridge if not 100% fit.
 
“Daniel’s out on the field and hopefully at the beginning of next week he’ll be back in first-team training,” the Liverpool manager said. Asked if Everton was a realistic target for the striker, Rodgers added: “Yes. It’s just how the injury has responded and he’s working well but we’ll know more early next week. We wouldn’t rush him back because of one game. Unless he’s fit enough to produce for us then I wouldn’t rush it.”
 
Rodgers’ fitness bulletin was not entirely positive, however, with Jon Flanagan potentially out for the rest of the calender year with a persistent knee injury. The defender has not featured this season and, with the problem not alleviating, has undergone surgery. Joe Allen, injured during Wales’ European Championship qualifier against Andorra, is facing a further three weeks out with a knee problem.
 
“Jon will probably be out for up to three months,” said the Liverpool manager. “He’s had his knee cleared out. The initial thinking was six weeks or so but it’s going to take a bit longer. Glen Johnson is due to train on Friday, Joe Allen is going to be another three weeks and we are counting down on Emre Can. Martin Skrtel has been back training this week and will be in the squad for the weekend.”
 
Rodgers, meanwhile, has disputed Sam Allardyce’s claims that complacency was partly responsible for Liverpool’s Premier League defeat at home to Aston Villa last Saturday. The West Ham manager suggested Rodgers’ team were distracted by the club’s return to the Champions League when they faced Paul Lambert’s in-form side, saying: “It was their first Champions League game back for many, many years. Maybe that caused a bit of complacency in the performance and Aston Villa took full advantage of it.”
 
But the Liverpool manager responded: “No, we are allergic to complacency here. We are not good enough to do that. Villa played well.”


