http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/18/didier-drogba-frank-lampard-chelsea-manchester-city

Didier Drogba predicts difficulties for Frank Lampard against Chelsea


Didier Drogba says that Frank Lampard “belongs to Chelsea”, even though the midfielder will wear Manchester City colours and stand against the London club at the Etihad Stadium on Sunday.
 
Drogba, who rejoined Chelsea in the summer on a free transfer from Galatasaray, played alongside Lampard at Stamford Bridge for eight seasons.
 
It will be curious for Drogba to see his friend in opposition to him, especially in non-Chelsea colours and he knows that it might be difficult for Lampard, who is on loan at City from New York City, having been released by Chelsea at the end of last season.
 
Drogba played against Chelsea for Galatasaray in both legs of the Champions League first knockout round last season and he found the tie at Stamford Bridge particularly emotional. But Drogba says that Lampard will be given a hero’s reception by Chelsea’s travelling fans, if he features, and he knows that the player’s legacy is assured.
 
“The supporters know what he gave for the club,” Drogba said. “So I know, for sure, the reaction will be good. It doesn’t matter what team he is playing for now, he belongs to us. He is a Chelsea player. For what he did. He’s part of the history of this club.
 
“I can’t wait to see him, to see my partner-in-crime. It’s a pity that I’ve come back and he’s not here any more. But I know for sure I will be happy to see him again. I played against Chelsea last season so I know it’s going to be difficult [for Lampard]. But I also know Frank. He will do his best.”
 
Drogba made the first start of his second spell at Chelsea in the 1-1 Champions League draw against Schalke at Stamford Bridge on Wednesday night. He looked rusty and he says that he will need time to generate form and momentum. On the plus side, he said it was a relief to play “without pain” after recent struggles with an ankle problem.
 
Drogba’s role at Chelsea is slightly different this time out, as he is also a mentor to the club’s younger players, including the £32m signing from Atlético Madrid, Diego Costa, who has seven goals in four Premier League games. There are similarities between the strikers, in terms of their physical style and their personal stories. Both of them arrived relatively late at the highest level.
 
“He is very good,” Drogba said. “For him to start the season in England, coming from Spain, which is a very different league and to recreate the same thing he was doing at Atlético, is fantastic. He’s enjoying playing here and being with us, and that’s the best feeling he could have. He’s the striker we needed this season. I can see his desire to win every challenge and to score goals. He’s hungry for goals and that’s the best thing for a team like us.”


