http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/17/daniel-sturridge-liverpool-boston-red-sox-injury

Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge to work with Boston Red Sox medical team


Daniel Sturridge is set to spend the Christmas period working with the Boston Red Sox medical staff in an attempt to resolve the Liverpool striker’s longstanding injury problems.
 
Sturridge, who made his last appearance for Brendan Rodgers’ side in the 3-0 win over Tottenham Hotspur at the end of August before being initially injured on England duty, has already spent time in America after suffering a further setback last month.
 
The England international is due to fly to Boston on Wednesday with Liverpool’s head of performance, Glen Driscoll, to link up with medical staff from the Red Sox, who are also owned by John W Henry’s Fenway Sports Group. It is understood that Sturridge will undergo similar specialist treatment to that which is usually provided to the baseball team in the hope that he may be back in action as soon as possible.
 
The 25-year-old first injured a thigh during an England training session for the Euro 2016 qualifier against Switzerland in September and was ruled out for up to three weeks. Sturridge then suffered another setback – this time to a calf – having returned to training at Melwood before being ruled out again with a fresh thigh problem.
 
The former Manchester City and Chelsea player, who signed a new five-year contract with Liverpool at the start of October, has hinted that his persistent muscle injuries could be hereditary. “I play my game as best I can, but I’ve been unfortunate this season,” he told TalkSport.
 
“Maybe it’s my body type, maybe it’s hereditary. Both my uncles had injuries, and my dad had them as well. Maybe it’s the Caribbean vibes, maybe I have speed but maybe it makes you more vulnerable because of the fast twitch muscles and the speed in which you’re moving.
 
“I am vulnerable to muscle injuries. As long as I continue to work hard everything will take care of itself.”


