http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/23/karren-brady-olympic-stadium-west-ham-united-tottenham-hotspur

Karren Brady: West Ham will not share Olympic Stadium with Tottenham


Karren Brady has indicated that West Ham would prevent Tottenham Hotspur from sharing the Olympic Stadium with them during Spurs’ season away from White Hart Lane.
 
Tottenham have announced that they will need to find a temporary home for the 2017-18 season because of delays to their new 58,000-seat stadium, with the Olympic Stadium believed to be on a list of temporary solutions.
 
However, West Ham have been awarded a 99-year lease by the London Legacy Development Committee to become anchor tenants of the Olympic site from August 2016 and, although Brady admitted it would be possible for another club to play in their new 54,000-seat stadium, she rejected suggestions that the club would agree to any request from Tottenham. Although the final decision rests with the LLDC, any deal would depend on West Ham’s approval.
 
“In reality they probably could – but only with our permission,” West Ham’s vice-chairman said at the launch of their Club London hospitality packages for the new stadium. “No one has asked us for our permission and, if they did, we would probably say no, depending on who it is – if you get my drift. We are the anchor tenant for the winter matches and nothing else can happen in that time without our permission and our football matches take priority over everything else.”
 
The chair of the London assembly budget and performance committee, John Biggs, has previously said that a temporary groundshare with Tottenham would be beneficial to the LLDC. Yet the agreement with West Ham means that they have primacy of use and it is understood that they effectively have the power of veto over who uses the stadium.
 
West Ham have not received an approach and ultimately it is more likely that Tottenham will look elsewhere. Spurs have said that they are looking at “four or five options”. Wembley remains an option, as does stadium:mk, the home of MK Dons.
 
The Rugby World Cup is set to be held at the Olympic Stadium next year and Brady said that West Ham would not receive any revenue from such events. “If there are events at the stadium we have approved we do not see any of the revenue from that,” she said.


