http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/04/chelsea-jose-mourinho-premier-league-schedule

Chelsea manager resigned to Maribor then Liverpool in quick succession


José Mourinho has given up on the Premier League and television rights holders taking into account midweek European commitments when it comes to fixture scheduling as Chelsea confront a lunchtime kick-off at Liverpool this Saturday, on their return from Slovenia.
 
The London club, who top the division by four points, will attempt to secure passage out of their Champions League group by defeating Maribor on Wednesday but have been infuriated by the decision to bring forward the game at Anfield for live coverage. The match on Merseyside will be televised by BT Sport, for whom Mourinho signed as a “football expert” and ambassador on a three-year contract in the summer, though the Portuguese believes any complaints over the fixture list will fall on deaf ears.
 
Adding to Mourinho’s annoyance was the fact that Liverpool rested a number of first-choice players at Real Madrid on Tuesdaynight with one eye on the weekend fixture. “If one day I go to a game and I don’t feel I can win, maybe I don’t go,” he said before kick-off at the Bernabéu. “So, normally, against the most difficult opponents, I will try to go with my best team.”
 
Whereas Liverpool also have the extra day to recover, Chelsea will return to Cobham in the small hours of Thursday and, at most, undertake a warm-down session later that day. They will travel north 24 hours later after only one training session dedicated to the Liverpool fixture, with Mourinho’s mood unlikely to be brightened by the knowledge that Arsenal, who play Anderlecht on Tuesday, visit Swansea on Sunday and that Manchester City, who are also at home in midweek, have been allocated the 5.30pm slot on Saturday for their game at Queens Park Rangers. Even that schedule would have granted Chelsea a few more hours to rest and prepare.
 
Mourinho was angry at having to play twice in three days last week so both games could be covered by Sky and, asked about Saturday’s lunchtime kick-off, his frustration was clear. “I know but what do you want me to do?” he said. “What can I say? They are not listening, of course not. I did not bother asking about changing the game.” The Chelsea manager was referring to the Premier League, which works in conjunction with the television channels to determine the fixture schedule, with this another instance of the frustration that regularly bothered him last season.
 
He had expressed his exasperation almost exactly a year ago when Chelsea were scheduled to play West Bromwich Albion on the Saturday after a Wednesday game at Schalke, whereas other English clubs involved in European competition were granted an extra 24 hours. “They know what they do and they laugh because I can’t do nothing,” he said at the time. “It is the people that decide the fixtures. I don’t know who they are.”
 
The situation flared up again before his team’s trip to Liverpool in April, when the London club were forced to play on Sunday before the second leg of the Champions League semi-final, against Atlético Madrid. They had failed with a petition to have the Premier League fixture brought forward by 24 hours to the Saturday.
 
Mourinho had threatened to field a shadow team at Anfield on that occasion – his weakened selection still won 2-0 – though he will consider rotating his squad in Slovenia this time, with Chelsea’s position at the top of Group G relatively secure. Maribor were thrashed 6-0 at Stamford Bridge a fortnight ago and although he is wary of complacency creeping into his team’s approach, the manager is confident his team will win again. Should Schalke defeat Sporting Lisbon in the other fixture then that would be enough to push the 2012 winners into the knockout phase with two games to play.
 
“I have to focus and make the players focus on Maribor’s other two games, their 1-1 draws with Schalke and Sporting, and make them understand we won 6-0 because we played very well, destroyed them in the first half and gave them no chance because of our very strong attitude,” said Mourinho. “I have to make them understand that, because seven points is not enough. We have to get maybe 12 points to win the group, maybe 10 to qualify. We have to dispute the first spot in the group. It is not fundamental, but it gives us a better chance [in the knockout phase].
 
“I do rotate. I did not play some players at Shrewsbury in the Capital One Cup last week, and Cahill did not play against Maribor when Zouma did. The strikers are rotating because of injury. It was just last week where Oscar, Filipe Luis and Cahill played all three games because we do try to leave players out. Terry does not play in the national team so, when the international break comes, he has his rest. We are controlling it. He does not need many other rests during our competition.” The game will offer Chelsea the chance to reintegrate Ramires into the first team after his recent groin injury, and Diego Costa may start.


