http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/28/arsene-wenger-injuries-arsenal-tottenham

Arsène Wenger left to rue injuries after Arsenal draw with Tottenham


At the end of this enthralling local affair it was hard to know whether Arsenal’s cup was half-full or half-empty. The hosts had shown resilience, yet here was a match in which they had again fallen behind. They remain undefeated in the Premier League, yet two points had been dropped to bitter rivals. There had been another encouraging display from Calum Chambers, yet two senior players, Mikel Arteta and Aaron Ramsey, picked up injuries that rule them out of key upcoming fixtures. Little wonder Arsène Wenger was a picture of dazed confusion when he later assessed the state of his side.
 
It is the loss of Arteta and Ramsey that troubled him the most. Having confirmed the pair will miss Wednesday’s visit of Galatasaray in the Champions League and Sunday’s trip to the Premier League leaders, Chelsea, because of respective calf and hamstring strains, the manager furrowed his brow and shook his head upon trying to explain how two players who been rested for last Tuesday’s Capital One Cup defeat by Southampton, and had a “light week” in training, could pull up so early in the way they did.
 
“I don’t know,” said the Frenchman. “There’s no logic. We have to analyse what happened. I don’t understand.”
           Arsenal 1-1 Tottenham Hotspur: Arsène Wenger commends team despite draw– video    
With Jack Wilshere also a concern after he hurt his ankle in a first-half collision with Tottenham’s left-back Danny Rose, that makes it six first-squad players who could miss out against Galatasaray and Chelsea, at the very least, because of injuries picked up this season. Same old Arsenal in that sense and something that was meant to become less so following the summer appointment of the fitness expert Shad Forsythe, a key component of Germany’s World Cup-winning triumph in Brazil. He can expect a potentially heated meeting with Wenger in the coming days.
 
Even without Arteta, Ramsey and, possibly, Wilshere, Arsenal will expect to overcome Galatasaray; certainly they cannot afford to lose after their limp 2-0 defeat by Borussia Dortmund in the opening match of Group D. The weekend visit to Chelsea offers a far greater test, however, not to mention the reopening of relatively fresh wounds. Wenger’s side were hammered 6-0 the last time they played at Stamford Bridge six months ago, which coming on the back of 6-3 and 5-1 losses at Manchester City and Liverpool respectively, was seen as proof that Arsenal’s approach to facing fellow title contenders away from home was flawed. Too open and tactically naive, were the charges laid against them.
 
Before their first trip to one of the Premier League’s big boys this term, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who got Arsenal back on level terms against Spurs with a rasping 74th-minute drive, insists their approach will not change.
 
“We do understand what happened there [Stamford Bridge] last season and maybe we’ve got a point to prove – we know this year we have got to step up in the big games and get some results – but we have belief in ourselves that we are able to go to a place like Chelsea and set the tempo and take control of the game,” he said. “They are going to have their time and we are going to have ours, we just have to make sure that when we have our chances we make them count.”
 
Foolish words perhaps but there is little doubt that when Arsenal are on the front foot and playing at pace they are a force to be reckoned with. Spurs certainly discovered that after taking the lead through Nacer Chadli’s opener on 56 minutes. It was a well-taken goal arising from smart play by Christian Eriksen and Erik Lamela just outside their opponents’ area but it was also something of an aberration, with Arsenal the dominant side in this 174th north London derby. Once behind, the hosts simply stepped up their tempo and intent and it felt as if it would be only a matter of time before they equalised. Arsenal had 69% of possession compared to Tottenham’s 31, as well as 10 more shots on target than their opponents.
 
A draw was not a total injustice, however, given the nature of the rearguard display by Spurs, with the captain, Younès Kaboul, outstanding in central defence and Hugo Lloris yet again excellent in goal, no more so than when he dived low to his left to keep out Per Mertesacker’s close-range header on 58 minutes.
 
“It was an amazing save,” said Mauricio Pochettino, the Tottenham manager. “From my position it was unbelievable but on TV it looks even better. I think Lloris is one of the best goalkeepers in the world, not just the Premier League.”
 
Man of the match Younès Kaboul (Tottenham)


