http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/19/brendan-rodgers-roy-hodgson

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers hails Raheem Sterling after win at QPR


Brendan Rodgers paid tribute to the “exceptional” Raheem Sterling after the Liverpool winger inspired his team to a 3-2 victory at Queens Park Rangers in a game steeped in late drama and watched by the England manager, Roy Hodgson.
 
The defeat was tough on QPR, who equalised in the 87th and 91st minutes through the substitute Eduardo Vargas, and the manager Harry Redknapp poured out his frustration afterwards, directing some of it towards Adel Taarabt, who he had omitted from his squad. Redknapp said that the Moroccan midfielder was “about three stone overweight” and had a dreadful attitude.
 
Sterling had been prominent in Liverpool’s opening goal and twice in injury-time he showed his pace on the counterattack to first help the substitute Philippe Coutinho make it 2-1 and then force the decisive own goal from Steven Caulker in the 95th minute.
 
Hodgson left his seat in the directors’ box in the 83rd minute and Rodgers said he had not been able to speak to him before or after the game, in light of the controversy that Hodgson’s remarks about Sterling had ignited during the week. The England manager said that Sterling had told him he was too tired to start in the Euro qualifier against Estonia last Sunday.
 
It seemed odd that Hodgson had not sought out Rodgers for a face-to-face conversation, although the latter was quick to play that down and insist the pair enjoy an excellent relationship. “There have been a whole series of things said about an unfortunate incident that happened and we have to move on from that,” the Liverpool manager said.
           Brendan Rodgers says it is unfair to compare Mario Balotelli to Luis Suárez    
“The kid’s a big talent and you have seen today that he was exceptional. I didn’t get the chance to see Roy. I was actually quite busy, believe it or not. There is no issue, no fallout, no nothing. I am a big supporter of the home nations and every country the players play for. So there is no issue. Roy and I speak and communicate well. We always find time to speak. I will always be there to support him.
 
“I always say to the players that the best players come alive when the game goes dead and Raheem did that on the opening goal. The breakaways for the other two are all about his speed, his technique and his courage to carry the ball and run with the ball.”
 
QPR remain at the bottom of the table and Redknapp was left to fume about how what he felt was the best performance of his tenure had been undermined by “naivety”, particularly for the last-gasp Liverpool winner. QPR had a free-kick through Leroy Fer but they contrived to be caught out by Coutinho and Sterling on the break. Redknapp, though, felt the red mist come down when he was asked about Taarabt’s omission.
 
“He’s not injured,” Redknapp said. “He’s not fit. He’s not fit to play football, unfortunately. He played in a reserve game the other day and I could have run about more than he did. I can’t pick him. I pick people who want to try, who deserve to be at a good football club like QPR, who come in every day and want to work, train and show a good attitude. When he starts doing that, if he ever can do it, maybe he’ll get a game.
 
“I can’t keep protecting people who don’t want to run about and train, and are about three stone overweight. What am I supposed to keep saying? Keep getting your 60, 70 grand a week and don’t train? What’s the game coming to?”
 
Redknapp said that the result was an “absolute injustice” and Rodgers had sympathy for him. QPR hit the crossbar twice in the first half and they created other good chances. Rodgers said that Liverpool were still struggling to adapt to the departure of Luis Suárez and the injury-induced absence of Daniel Sturridge.
 
“I thought we were fortunate,” Rodgers said. “That [performance] was nowhere near. I have to applaud the players for their character because even though we weren’t anywhere near with our passing or other parts of our game, we kept going.”


