http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/23/mauricio-pochettino-tottenham-hotspur-hit-face

Mauricio Pochettino to tweak Tottenham team after ‘big hit in face’


Mauricio Pochettino has likened TottenhamHotspur’s home defeat by West Bromwich Albion on Sunday to a “big hit in the face” and is keen for it to snap his players out of complacency.
 
The manager had promised a thorough investigation into why his team slipped to the 1-0 Premier League defeat and his conclusion pointed to a flaw in their mentality.
 
Pochettino is generally happy with the squad’s progression under his charge and he believes that the West Brom game was an isolated poor performance. He continues to split hairs and argue that 0-0 would have been the “fair” result.
 
As he prepared for the Capital One Cup visit of the Championship leaders, Nottingham Forest, on Wednesday, Pochettino stressed the need for his players to bring their maximum levels to every game.
 
“To build a winning mentality and a winning team, sometimes you need to lose; you need a big hit in the face to change the energy and to realise you need to fight every game, you need to fight every training session, you need to play like a team. We need to change the mentality, to be ready every time.”
 
Pochettino sounded like a clutch of his managerial predecessors at White Hart Lane as he raked over an inexplicable switch-off and he did not seek to disguise his disappointment, nor to sugar-coat the home truths to the players. He did, however, say he was his own biggest critic and the ultimate responsibility for any result lay with him.
 
“You can see on the touchline how my behaviour is, how my personality is. I am straight with the players. I told them all the truth, inside [the dressing room]. I always tell the truth to their faces in private. It’s an easy thing, not a difficult thing. This is my personality.
 
“I don’t mind the criticism because nobody can criticise me more than I do myself. I understand it because we lost to West Brom and it’s almost unacceptable to lose a game like that, especially at home.”
 
Pochettino is without only the long-term injury casualty, Kyle Walker, and he is expected to rotate his squad against Forest. He is unafraid to make changes and he said that the big reputations of certain players meant nothing to him.
 
“The players are not different,” Pochettino said. “We have 25, 26 players and they are all in the squad. If I decide you play, you play. The name is nothing for me when I pick my team.
 
“Every day, they fight for their places. And when I pick the best players for each game, I always analyse the last performance. I have no problem to change. I have no problem to pick different players in different competitions or if it’s not a good moment – if you need to change, you change.”


