http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/22/brendan-rodgers-liverpool-form-weight-jersey

Brendan Rodgers blames poor Liverpool form on ‘weight of the jersey’

    Liverpool can be much better, says Brendan Rodgers    
Brendan Rodgers has identified formation changes and the “weight of the jersey” on Liverpool’s summer signings as the causes of the team’s early troubles, conceding he must find a settled system to rectify the problem. Liverpool host Middlesbrough in the Capital One Cup on Tuesday with the manager considering debuts for the 17-year-olds Jordan Rossiter and Sheyi Ojo while he rests Steven Gerrard from a midfield hit by injury. Jordan Henderson and Philippe Coutinho could join Joe Allen and Emre Can on the sidelines with respective hip and groin problems with the Merseyside derby against Everton awaiting on Saturday.
 
Rodgers is also prepared to give his preferred midfield diamond a rest against the Championship side having admitted his available players were unsuitable for the system that started at West Ham United on Saturday, when Liverpool suffered their third league defeat in five Premier League matches.
 
“Our passing disappointed me,” the Liverpool manager said. “We played more long passes than West Ham and that is something you have not seen from us in over the two years. We need to get back to doing what we do best. I look at the movement patterns in our team, our pressing in those patterns of pressure and, given the injuries, I need to retain a system for a longer period.
 
“The 4-4-2 diamond worked really well but it worked well with certain players and not at the weekend. Until I get all the players back that I know are multifunctional players, I’ll look at the strength of the players we do have fit. Hopefully that gives them confidence. Confidence has not been affected so far but if you don’t win games for too long it can be.”
     Brendan Rodgers says playing for Liverpool brings unexpected pressure for players but expects his players to adapt. Photograph: Colorsport/Corbis    
Liverpool signed nine players in the summer and Rodgers believes the eight involved in his first-team squad (Divock Origi was loaned back to Lille) need time to adapt: “We’ve conceded eight goals and the majority of those could have been avoided but what people probably don’t get is the pressure of playing for such a big club. The weight of the jersey here is heavy for most players. Once you adapt to playing for Liverpool you become clearer in your thinking.”
 
Gerrard is likely to be rested after playing three games past week and struggling in the third against West Ham, although the fitness doubt over Henderson has further stretched Rodgers’ midfield options. Rossiter and Ojo trained with the squad on Monday and Rodgers said: “A number of the young boys are training with us and working with us. These kids need a chance and if that comes tomorrow night we hope they can take it.”


