http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/03/cesc-fabregas-chelsea-arsenal-shirt-wrong

Arsenal fan view: it will sting to see Cesc Fàbregas line up for Chelsea | Andrew Mangan


Towards the end of last season I interviewed Cesc Fàbregas for a book I was writing. We spoke for about an hour, and at the end of the phone conversation, he said, “I’ll see you soon at the Emirates!” – the implication being that he would end up back at Arsenal at some point. He’ll be back all right, just not in red and white.
 
Arsène Wenger has discovered some exciting young talent in his time but nothing like Fàbregas. He was a once in a lifetime discovery. Wenger knew it, and we knew it as fans. He was the kind of player you build a team around, and the Frenchman did just that, selling the imperious, although waning, Patrick Vieira to make room in the midfield for the teenage Spaniard.
 
Unfortunately, his blossoming coincided with the age of austerity in north London. Out went the big names, in came callow youth in an effort to grow a team as the financial belt of the new stadium tightened. Lack of experience, or the wrong kind of experience, hindered, rather than helped the development of the youngsters, who were given too much, too soon in terms of responsibility and financial reward.
 
Fàbregas usually shone. He did his best but he was a Mercedes engine in an entry-level Ford Mondeo. Arsenal achieved just about what they should have with the players they had. A trophy chance in the 2011 Carling Cup final was blown in tragi-comic style as an injured Fàbregas missed out. If his mind was not already made up to leave, surely this was the final nail in the coffin. As one of the best players in the world, he wanted to win things and, given the state of things in north London, it seemed unlikely that was going to happen at Arsenal in the near future.
 
This summer, as his Barcelona dream died, his availability was well known – as was Arsenal’s first refusal option. I have no doubt he would have come back in a heartbeat, but Wenger decided that with £42.5m Mesut Özil in his squad, and young talent like Jack Wilshere and Aaron Ramsey at his disposal, he’d take a pass (sadly not a laser-guided defence splitter like Fàbregas used to produce).
           Arsène Wenger on Chelsea’s Cesc Fàbregas at Arsenal – video    
If I understood the reasoning on a cerebral level, I would have loved him back all the same. I don’t think you can ever have too many good players, especially at a club where injuries are so prevalent it might be an idea to build a hospital wing at the training ground. And on top of that, to see him sign for Chelsea was unpleasant for various reasons.
 
You can be as rational as you want, but so much of being a football fan is emotional. To see a once favourite player rock up and do well for a team you don’t much like, well … it’s not nice. Sure, it’s not the end of the world, but neither is a kick in the nuts and it’s still a sensation nobody enjoys.
 
While I don’t begrudge him the move – he’s a professional after all, and what was he supposed to when we didn’t want him? Cry for a bit then retire? – it will sting to see him line up against us. The Barcelona shirt was one he was born into, the Chelsea one, it just looks wrong on him. And if he makes a decisive contribution, so be it, that’s just what great footballers do.
 
He was a great footballer for Arsenal, for Barcelona, and now he plays for Chelsea, but for me he will always be connected to Arsenal. An icon of the very best of what Wenger wanted to achieve with youth, and a doleful example of how it didn’t happen.
 
Andrew Mangan runs arseblog.com. Follow him here on Twitter 


