http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/11/football-transfer-rumours-tottenha-newcastle

Football transfer rumours: Tottenham and Newcastle both up for sale?


Billionaire Tottenham Hotspur owner Joe Lewis fancies himself another billion, so has put the club up for sale for precisely that princely sum. One can only imagine what Apprentice finger-pointer Sir Alan Sugar would make of someone foolish enough to flog for just £22m a business that 13 short years later might be worth 45 and a half times as much, but Nick Hewer would probably have a few sharp words to say about his error of judgment back in 2001.
 
Anyway, according to the Mirror Lewis hasn’t found a taker yet, so has instructed Mauricio Pochettino to get the club qualified for the Champions League sharpish in an effort to boost his chances. To do that, though, they’ll have to pip Manchester United, who “assume third [place] in our budgets” this season, apparently. Presumably they have some alternative budgets just in case.
 
Anyone interested in buying Tottenham but without a full billion in their current account could consider snapping up an equally available-according-to-one-newspaper Newcastle. Apparently their owner, Mike Ashley, would prefer to own Rangers and can’t have them both, so is willing to off-load his magpie-shirted charges for a bargain £230m. It may, however, just be a ruse designed to shift corporate tickets. According to the Telegraph, “anyone who claims they are interested in negotiating a price will be asked to pay for the use of a box at St James’ Park for 10 years up front”.
 
Whatever, it looks like there are definitely changes afoot in Newcastle, with the Express exclusively trumpeting news that manager Alan Pardew will absolutely certainly get the sack, so long as a variety of things that probably won’t happen but still might happen happen. Specifically, insist the paper, if they lose their next two games, against Southampton and then Hull, Ashley’s axe – or the axe of whoever’s wielding Newcastle’s axe by then – “could” swing.
 
Meanwhile the list of former Leeds players willing to become manager of Leeds continues to grow, with Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink joining Robbie Fowler and Dominic Matteo in submitting an application. “If they want to talk to me, of course I would talk to them,” the ex-striker blasted, before becoming increasingly philosophical. “But what do Leeds United themselves want? That’s the most important question. How do they see things?” Through a thick and bitter fog of tears and fury, would seem the obvious answer. Still fancy the job, Jimmy? Jimmy?
 
In other management news, Real Madrid bigwig Jorge Valdano has delivered a vicious slapdown to José Mourinho, insisting: “I’ve never heard him say a single thing about football worth remembering, either in public or in private.” Ouch.
 
Stating the obvious dept: Gabriel Agbonlahor reckons that signing a lucrative new four-year deal at Aston Villa was “not a hard decision”. Similar offers are on the tables of Jack Grealish and Fabian Delph, whose decisions may be complicated by the fact that other clubs may want to buy them.
 
Finally, some actual transfer news. Or rather, no-transfer-happening-here news: Wolves still want to sign Chris Wood from Leicester, even though the striker turned them down last month, but Chris Wood would still turn down Wolves, like he did last month. And also QPR want someone to borrow Shaun Wright-Phillips but nobody wants to.
 
And Simon Davies has finally found a new club, more than a year after his release by Fulham. He’s now playing for Solva, which nestles on the north curve of St Bride’s Bay in Pembrokeshire, and is busily preparing for their visit to Carew this Saturday. “It’s a big signing for the club,” deadpanned their club secretary, Tracey Cole. His arrival may have something to do with their goalkeeper and captain, Chris “brother-of-Simon” Davies.


