http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/03/arsene-wenger-chelsea-arsenal-rout

Arsenal keen to ‘put things right’ after Chelsea rout – Arsène Wenger


Arsène Wenger says his players have not been scarred by José Mourinho’s Chelsea following their 6-0 drubbing of Arsenal last season, but he claimed there is a desire to “put things right” when the teams reunite at Stamford Bridge.
 
Chelsea face Arsenal on Sunday in the first match between the two sides since Wenger’s “nightmare” 1,000th game as manager in March, when Arsenal had Kieran Gibbs sent off in the 15th minute having already conceded twice.
 
Wenger has a poor record against Mourinho and Arsenal have not beaten Chelsea since October 2011, losing three of their last four league matches against their London rivals.
 
However, the ill-feeling between the two managers appears to have eased since February, when Mourinho described the Frenchman as a “specialist in failure” Wenger saying his adversary was “afraid to fail”. Asked if Arsenal’s players might think they could not beat Mourinho, Wenger said: “No, why? In life you must always think you are there to change what happened before, or you are fatalistic. A competitive guy is somebody who wants to make history and change what happened before. We have an opportunity to do that.
 
“It was not a bad day [the 6-0 defeat], it was a horrendous day for us. But we never forget that day and we have an opportunity to put it right. We, of course, are hugely determined and have a big hunger to put that right on Sunday. We have an opportunity to do it and I am confident that we will take the chance to do it.
 
“It was a massive, massive disappointment. But on the other hand I must say that in hindsight we showed great strength. The way we responded until the end of the season would not have happened at many clubs. The players will want to put things right after last season and will be up for it on the day.”
 
Nacho Monreal could return to the Arsenal squad after a back problem while Wenger’s defence must cope with Chelsea’s in-form striker Diego Costa, who he described as a “killer”.
 
Mourinho is not expecting Arsenal to roll over in similar fashion to last season and, despite Chelsea’s fine start to the season – having won five out of six Premier League matches – the Portuguese describe their 6-0 victory as “once in a lifetime”.
 
“It’s not something that happens every day. Chelsea against Arsenal, normally the result is close. It happened once, in different circumstances: a bad day for them, an unbelievable day for us. It cannot happen many times,” he said.
 
Asked if he had apologised to Wenger for the “specialist in failure” remark, Mourinho said: “I didn’t get an apology. I don’t apologise … My feeling about it is, to go over it… to forget it and to move forward without thinking about what happened, you don’t need to apologise. Intelligent football people don’t need that. Finish, move and let’s go for another match with big responsibility for both of us.”


