http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/19/eden-hazard-jose-mourinho-chelsea

Eden Hazard needs titles to become a Chelsea great, says José Mourinho


José Mourinho believes Eden Hazard can go on to become one of Chelsea’s greatest players but will only fulfil that potential if he is a key member of a side that claims major silverware at Stamford Bridge.
 
The Belgium international is close to signing a new five-year contract at the Premier League leaders which, at around £200,000-a-week, will establish him as the highest earning player at the club. Talks have been on-going with the 23-year-old’s legal representatives – the forward is currently operating without an agent – since the start of the season and agreement has been reached in principle, with Mourinho confident the deal will be formally confirmed in the new year.
 
“He will, he will [sign],” said the Chelsea manager. “I was never worried about it, ever since the moment I met his father. Everything was very clear about their intentions and their happiness to stay at Chelsea. After that, it becomes a numbers situation. When it becomes a numbers situation I’m more than happy to be out [of the talks], but my club always told me that the situation would finish with a new contract. So I was never worried about that.”
 
Hazard has claimed the Europa League with Chelsea since joining from Lille, with whom he had claimed Ligue 1, for £32m in 2012 but is now established as an integral member of the team who currently sit three points clear at the top of the Premier League. “I think he can become one of this club’s all-time greats, I think so,” added Mourinho. “But he needs to win titles, because titles make players historic. I don’t know players who are considered legends in clubs without winning titles. He has to do that. But the potential everybody knows.”
           Chelsea are ready for Christmas period, says José Mourinho    
Chelsea hope to welcome Thibaut Courtois back from a groin injury at Stoke City on Monday with the Belgian’s recovery to be assessed in training over the next three days. Kurt Zouma, who was injured in a clash of heads with Petr Cech at Derby on Tuesday, is also available while Didier Drogba may also be included in the travelling squad despite picking up an ankle injury in that win in the League Cup quarter-final.
 
Mourinho has insisted that he is not concerned by Manchester City’s recent revival, with Manuel Pellegrini’s side able to overtake Chelsea at the top of the table if they can beat Crystal Palace today.
 
“We start the season with the same points so if tomorrow we have the same points as them. That’s fine,” he said.


