http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/14/mauricio-pochettino-tottenham-hotspur-daniel-levy

Mauricio Pochettino dismisses pressure at Tottenham from Daniel Levy


Mauricio Pochettino is not worried about Daniel Levy’s ruthless reputation and has said that he does not feel under pressure at his new club, although the Tottenham Hotspur manager has admitted that he will be in trouble if he does not get results.
 
It has been suggested that Pochettino’s decision to leave Southampton and join Tottenham is a gamble because of the perceived lack of stability at White Hart Lane. The Argentinian is the ninth manager Levy has appointed since he became chairman in 2001 and he does not have a history of showing patience when the team is struggling. Last season André Villas-Boas was sacked after less than 18 months in the job and his replacement, Tim Sherwood, was fired at the end of a chaotic campaign.
 
“I do not worry about that,” Pochettino said. “I know the business in football. I know that you live by the result, you need to get results. If not, you put yourself in difficulties. But the club and the chairman do not put any pressure on me or any challenges for me to achieve something. We have a very good relationship. Every day we talk together, with Franco Baldini and the chairman and with all the board and people here, and try to do the best to help the club and for our supporters to enjoy every game.”
 
While Pochettino says it will take time for his players to become completely comfortable with his ideas, he understands the demands placed on managers. He said nothing is more important than winning and that his sole focus at the moment is on Saturday’s trip to West Ham, who beat Tottenham three times last season. Pochettino is unsure whether Jan Vertonghen, Nacer Chadli and Mousa Dembélé will be ready to play at Upton Park after their World Cup exertions.
 
“My focus is the first game on Saturday,” Pochettino said. “This is true. We understand that football is in the present. It is difficult to take time. Before that we need to improve and learn quickly for sure.
 
“No, I don’t put any time on it. We need to improve every day. This is our objective. After that we need to get results. I don’t demand time. It’s only to work hard every day, to build and improve every player in the squad. After, always in football, the result manages your career and the decisions, because we need to win. This is our job, not only to provide your philosophy to the team and your style. You need to win, this is the first objective.
 
“It’s not difficult,” he said. “I am happy with all the players and it’s better when you have a long squad than a short squad. When you need players and they stay at another club, it’s not the same possibility as here.
 
“I am very happy. It’s true, we need to take a decision but at the moment all have the possibility to stay with us.”
 
Pochettino would not be drawn on transfers and although he retains an interest in Southampton’s Morgan Schneiderlin, it remains to be seen whether Tottenham will meet an asking price in excess of £27m for the French midfielder. Tottenham are also thought to be tracking the PSV Eindhoven winger Memphis Depay.
 
However, Tottenham need to trim their squad by seven to meet the Premier League’s 25-man regulations and Pochettino quickly needs to decide who is surplus to requirements. “It’s true, we need to take a decision but at the moment all have the possibility to stay with us,” Pochettino said.
 
Southampton mostly used one striker through the middle under Pochettino but he said that Emmanuel Adebayor and Roberto Soldado will both be given opportunities to play, sometimes together.
 
“In Southampton we did it with Rickie Lambert and Jay Rodriguez and Adam Lallana and we are flexible,” Pochettino said. “Sometimes we play with two strikers and sometimes with one striker in the same game. But we always play with the same philosophy. We need to be protagonists and always press high, work hard and be a dynamic team. But after we have a lot of games and we have time for all the players to show and play.”


