http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/dec/17/liverpool-bournemouth-calms-crisis-league-cup

Liverpool victory over Bournemouth calms the crisis talk – for now | Alan Smith


At the turn of this month the Capital One Cup quarter-final would not have been very high on Liverpool and Brendan Rodgers’ list of priorities. There was a sense at full-time, however, of a big weight being lifted from the manager’s shoulders.
 
Liverpool got the job done but had to endure a sustained spell of Bournemouth pressure from the moment they went 3-0 in front. When Dan Gosling pulled a goal back for Bournemouth with 33 minutes to go and was then denied by a post, the travelling support would have been excused for thinking of last season’s trip to Crystal Palace.
 
In the end the overriding emotion was one of relief, even if Rodgers listed a plethora of positive adjectives to describe the attacking performance. Liverpool are by no means out of the woods and problems could crop up again when Arsenal come to Anfield on Sunday in the Premier League.
 
“We can do better – we’ve got to stop the cross,” Rodgers said of the concession. “Then the mistake in the box allows them to get the goal – any team gets momentum from that. We knew there’d be a stage where we’d have to stay compact and together, and they had that spell when they hit the post. But we got our composure back on the ball and saw the game through.”
 
Liverpool’s attacking problems, remedied courtesy of Raheem Sterling and Lazar Markovic, have acted as a distraction from the defensive problems which, if last season were troublesome, have been threatening to reach disastrous levels of late.
 
Whereas their porous rearguard was more than compensated for by the inimitable Luis Suárez-Daniel Sturridge combination last season – as witnessed at this ground in the FA Cup fourth-round when the former provided for the latter to score their second in a 2-0 win – this time they were left with a starting side that contained seven midfielders and no striker.
 
Little wonder there was a sense this might be Bournemouth’s big chance. The highest scorers across all four divisions, they have belied the theory that success in the Championship should be built on power. Instead of force, this is a side packed with the sort of technical players that Rodgers craves.
 
Not too long ago Eddie Howe, the Bournemouth manager, visited Rodgers at Swansea’s training ground to help expand his own coaching knowledge. Here he was plotting his friend’s downfall, but things did not quite turn out as planned as his team failed to deliver in attack until the game was gone and they had already dithered in defence.
 
Howe would briefly have been pleased to see his side expressing themselves freely in the opening minutes. If much of the focus had been on how well a strikerless Liverpool would assert themselves in attack, it took only four minutes for their defensive frailties to appear when Callum Wilson was fed and, after jinking past Dejan Lovren, looked destined to score from 12 yards but he missed to the right.
 
Bournemouth’s early pressure failed to produce anything else and Liverpool soon asserted control – although that would be underplaying the utter domination that led to the opener, as almost three minutes passed without Bournemouth having a touch.
 
The second arrived within seven minutes but there was still a sense at that point that Bournemouth could fashion enough to get back into the contest. When the chances arrived at 2-0, though, they could not threaten Brad Jones. Yann Kermorgant’s hopeless blast over after Liverpool were cut apart on Lovren’s side was a case in point.
 
Lovren arrived at Anfield with a hefty £20m price tag and a reputation for being one of the Premier League’s most dependable protectors. In the space of a few months he has become an easy target, encapsulating the team’s rapid regression from title challengers to clinging on to hopes of a top-four finish – before we even reach Christmas.
 
The 25-year-old Croatian has coughed up more chances to opposition defenders than any other player in the top tier this season through unforced errors. Lovren has not turned into a poor defender, and it certainly does not help when Rodgers is tinkering with the formation and personnel game by game. On Wednesday night, with an opportunity to gain some much-needed confidence, the Croatian was replaced by Mamadou Sakho due to injury at half-time and with a clean sheet still intact.
 
At times when in possession the back three were so spread out that Kolo Touré, Lovren and then Sakho were close to having white chalk on their boots. Those gaps will continue to be exploited unless things change. Then again, Rodgers appears to be a man with a penchant for gambling when it comes to selections. It just about paid off here; Sunday might be a different story.


