http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/31/mauricio-pochettino-tottenham-jose-mourinho-chelsea

Tottenham’s Mauricio Pochettino keen to beat his nemesis José Mourinho


The spectre of José Mourinho has loomed large for Mauricio Pochettino at various stages of his career. The Tottenham Hotspur manager remembers when he was at Espanyol for his first playing spell and Mourinho was the assistant manager across town at Barcelona, working first with Sir Bobby Robson and then with Louis van Gaal.
 
Pochettino did not have much luck against that Barcelona team over four years – Espanyol beat them only once, in February 1997 – but he fared rather better than he did when he became the manager of Espanyol and had to face Mourinho’s Real Madrid. In two seasons from 2010 Pochettino played him four times in La Liga, losing all four, failing to score in any of them and conceding 13. “Unlucky,” Pochettino says, with a smile.
 
Results have taken a similar course in England. When Pochettino’s Southampton took on Mourinho’s Chelsea last season they lost 3-1 and 3-0 while this season his Tottenham team were beaten 3-0 at Stamford Bridge on 3 December. It has often seemed that Chelsea have held a hex over Tottenham but what about Mourinho over Pochettino?
 
As Pochettino prepares to welcome the man he calls a “good friend” to White Hart Lane for this season’s return Premier League fixture – the 5.30pm kick-off on New Year’s Day – there has been the usual talk of Tottenham facing a psychological challenge as much as anything else. The same applies, on a personal level, for Pochettino.
 
“The psychological aspect is a factor in the preparations,” Pochettino said. “We need to try to change things. Maybe this is a moment to do so. We need to fight. For the fans it is very important to win and we need to do our jobs. Chelsea is a very good team but it would be great for the fans if we got the three points.”
 
Tottenham started brightly in the fixture at Stamford Bridge four weeks ago only to be undone by errors and Chelsea’s ruthlessness. But for Pochettino and his players it was a rare blot since the home defeat by Stoke City on 9 November. The other notable disappointment was the 0-0 home draw against Crystal Palace immediately after the Chelsea defeat.
 
Pochettino professes himself to be “happy so far” at the job that he and his staff have done and he believes that gradually his methods have taken hold. He has not been heard to complain so much about the softness of the squad’s mentality in recent weeks – such gripes were a feature of his early tenure – while the squad is impressively fit and his starting line-up appears more balanced and settled.
 
Jan Vertonghen and Federico Fazio are developing an understanding in central defence and Christian Eriksen is thriving in his favoured No10 role behind the in-form Harry Kane.
 
Fazio will be charged with nullifying Chelsea’s Diego Costa and the head-to-head will stir memories of their previous meeting, in Spain last season. Costa, then at Atlético Madrid, got into a tangle with Fazio, who was at Sevilla, and he dug his finger into the defender’s cheek. Fazio responded by balling up his fist and punching Costa in the side. Costa did not play in the Stamford Bridge game because he was suspended.
 
Pochettino talked of how his Tottenham team were “different to two months ago” and, specifically, the improvement in their “organisation, mentality and physical condition”. He maintains that the key has been patience, which tends to be in short supply in the modern game. Fazio, who joined from Sevilla in late August, stands as a good example of the progress. He has found his feet after an erratic start.
 
“You always need time to settle your philosophy,” Pochettino said. “Maybe it is difficult to take time in football but this is the reality. The time is important when you want to change direction. We are very happy now with the players but, as a squad, you can always improve.”
 
Pochettino has had time to assess his players and the club will listen to offers for those who have struggled for playing time under him. Paulinho, Mousa Dembélé, Emmanuel Adebayor and Aaron Lennon, together with the forgotten man, Benoît Assou-Ekotto, could move in January. With the right-back DeAndre Yedlin arriving from Seattle Sounders, Kyle Naughton may also be pressed out.
 
The problem, as ever, will involve the chairman Daniel Levy’s valuations. He would be loth, for example, to take too great a hit on Paulinho, for whom he paid a then club record £17m in July 2013. It will be interesting to see whether Paul Mitchell, the recently appointed head of recruitment and analysis, can have an impact.
 
What Pochettino needs, though, is a breakthrough victory – a major scalp to fire his reign. The biggest to date has been Everton, in the 2-1 Premier League win on 30 November. That of Mourinho and Chelsea would fit the bill for so many reasons.


