http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/23/chelsea-nemanja-matic-unprecedented-quadruple

Chelsea could claim unprecedented quadruple, says Nemanja Matic


Nemanja Matic believes Chelsea could claim an unprecedented quadruple, citing the mentality and depth of José Mourinho’s squad as the main reasons for the optimism surrounding the club.
 
No side has ever won the Premier League, Champions League, FA Cup and League Cup in a single season. After defeating Stoke City 2-0 at the Britannia Stadium on Monday evening with goals from John Terry and Cesc Fàbregas, Chelsea will top the table at Christmas by three points from Manchester City.
 
Asked if the quadruple could be on for Chelsea, Matic said: “I think it’s possible, we have a chance so it is possible. I don’t want to say that we’re going to win it but we’re going to try, we have quality – but also other teams, they are strong. We will try and we will see if we can do it. I am confident, I believe in my team, my team-mates, so everything is possible.”
 
Matic believes this ambition indicates Chelsea’s mental strength. “It’s always important that you are mentally prepared to win, and at this moment we are confident, we are top of the table so everything is OK and we will try to continue like this.
 
“We have 25 players ready to play in every moment, so it’s very important for us that it doesn’t matter who plays, we play the same way and we play like a team.
 
“[The Stoke result] was very important for us. We spoke before the game that we have to expect a hard game because they are a very good team, especially at home. Last season Chelsea lost points there and we were focused on this game, we prepared very well, I think we did our job well and we’re happy because of that.”
 
Chelsea now host West Ham on Boxing Day. “I saw them in a couple of games this season and I think that they are very strong, they play very well, so I expect a tough game. But we have to take three points … I’m not scared of anybody.”
 
Thibaut Courtois, meanwhile, believes the title race with City could go right down to the wire in May.
 
“The way it’s going right now, it’s close,” said the Belgium goalkeeper. “It’s a hard league. What happens this month will be very important – the three games that are coming now in a short period are very difficult games, but I think we can win all three. We have to work hard and play as well as we can. I think we’re doing a great job.”


