http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/01/steven-gerrard-liverpool-contract-brendan-rodgers

Steven Gerrard considers Liverpool contract with reduced playing role


Brendan Rodgers has said Steven Gerrard’s new Liverpool contract rests on the captain accepting a reduced role on the pitch and making a lifestyle choice off it, indicating the one-club servant could move abroad when his deal expires next summer.
 
The Liverpool midfielder was offered a contract extension a fortnight ago by the club’s owners, Fenway Sports Group, and is considering whether to continue a 16-year playing career at Anfield beyond this campaign. Rodgers has told Gerrard he can have a place on Liverpool’s coaching staff when his illustrious career ends but insists the former England captain’s retirement date remains “a couple of years” away.
 
Liverpool’s manager believes Gerrard deserves time to consider the contract offer given his outstanding service and denies the deal is unsigned because of money. More influential factors in Gerrard’s decision, according to Rodgers, will be the contribution he can make to the Liverpool team after he turns 35 in May and what he wants for the next phase in his life.
 
He could be offered a career path similar to Frank Lampard by New York City while several European clubs would be interested in signing Gerrard on a free transfer. Rodgers insists Gerrard, who has described himself as a home-bird in the past, is in a “totally different situation” to Lampard but admits the prospect of the Liverpool figurehead playing elsewhere cannot be discounted.
           Brendan Rogers confirms that Steven Gerrard has been offered a contract extension    
“Steven’s had 16 incredible years here and I believe he can continue to work at this level for the next couple of years,” the Liverpool manager said. “But there are other factors involved that are as much about life as they are about football. One thing I know absolutely is that it is not about money. It is not about finances. I’m sure in time Steven will talk through the things he had to consider but for me there is no drama. I can only think about the situation here and I hope there is a solution with the club and the representatives. It is not about the money, it is about the time of his career in terms of playing. He is a big talent.”
 
Rodgers, who takes his Liverpool team to Leicester City on Tuesday, added: “We have spoken to Steven and his representative and he has been offered a contract here. hat is where it is at. For everything he has done here over 16 years he deserves the respect and time to consider that. It’s a big move in his life in terms of determining where his next contract will be.”
 
Gerrard’s place among the substitutes for Liverpool’s win over Stoke prompted intense scrutiny on Saturday despite Rodgers’ admission before the Champions League game against Ludogorets that the 34-year-old should not be expected to start three games a week. Adjusting to that role, Rodgers said, “is something that needs to be considered for any player”.
 
He added: “You get to a stage where you can’t play every minute of every game. Steven is getting to that point of his career and he will speak about the adjustments he needs to make. I am categorical, I want him to be here, but there is thinking time needed.”
 
Rodgers said there will always be a position for Gerrard at Liverpool irrespective of the next step in his career but believes a coaching role would be premature. He said: “At this moment in time he is still very much a player. That is his concentration. When I see how he trains and works it is still about playing. Maybe there is a role further down the line, to have someone like that beside you in a coaching capacity would be great, but he still has a couple of years to play if he wants to.
 
“There are many things at this stage he needs to factor in, not just about football. If he ever went away from here then I’m sure there will be a time later on in his life where there will be a role for him back here.”


