http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/sep/09/chelsea-loan-players-change-rules-wild-west-football

With Chelsea having 26 players out on loan is it time to change rules? | Owen Gibson


This week Chelsea players will start drifting back from international duty around the world. However, for an astonishing 26 of them, the destination will not be the club’s state-of-the art training ground in Surrey but an array of clubs across England, Europe and – in the case of the full-back Cristián Cuevas – Chile. Many of them have never pulled on a blue shirt in a first-team game – and many never will.
 
The expansive way in which Chelsea have taken advantage of the non-existent rules governing the international loan system has raised new questions about what has become football’s equivalent of the Wild West. On this new frontier – with clubs playing for profit as well as player development – there is increasing unease about what the ultimate unintended consequences could be.
 
This season Chelsea’s army of loanees will play in the Premier League, others in the Football League, a clutch at what has effectively become a feeder club in all but name at Vitesse Arnhem in Holland and others still at a range of medium-sized clubs across France, Germany, Spain and Italy.
 
The loanees, collectively worth perhaps £100m, range from full internationals signed for big-money sums, such as Marco van Ginkel and Victor Moses, through young prospects lured from abroad at 16 or 17, to a handful of young English players who are right at the heart of the debate about how best to nurture and develop homegrown talent.
 
Even Fernando Torres, the club’s record signing who slipped out of the back door on deadline day after a frustrating spell, left for Milan on a two-year “loan”. Given that his contract has two years left to run, no one expects to see him back at Stamford Bridge.
 
Chelsea were far from alone on deadline day in working the global loan system to their advantage. Some of the biggest deals, such as Radamel Falcao’s move to Manchester United, were booked as loan signings rather than permanent deals.
 
However, it is at Chelsea that the most eye-catching revolution is taking place. The club might argue that a lot of time, effort and money has gone into developing an international scouting network, building links with other clubs and putting great thought into where to place their players to progress their careers.
 
It is not as if they are trying to hide their intentions – Chelsea’s official website highlights and profiles their loan players while fans track their progress via social media and blogs. Having invested hugely in their academy set-up – building teams that won both the FA Youth Cup and the Premier League’s new under-21 competition last season – the web of loanees is part of their attempt to grapple with the issue of how to progress those players to the first team.
 
The technical director, Michael Emenalo, has been a vocal defender of the club’s strategy, which is seen as an important plank of their plan to continue to compete for the biggest prizes in the game while complying with Uefa’s break-even rules. “We think this is the best way to go. We identified that for young players, the ages of 18 to 21 are the most difficult time as they wonder if they are good enough for the Chelsea first team and what is next for them,” he has said. “We felt it is better for them at that age to go on loan to somewhere where they get visibility and good competition. For psychological and physical reasons that is the best thing to do at that age.”
     The Stamford Bridge 26 – graphic Photograph: Guardian    
Click here for the full graphic.
 
There are fiscal concerns at play, too. The potential financial upside is not insignificant. The clubs that take their players on loan usually (if not always) pay the wages of their signings, removing them from the books for that year’s accounts. Given the concentration on “home-grown” players in football’s rulebooks, it helps to have as many on hand as possible.
 
There are also many in football who believe Chelsea have effectively developed a new business stream with their loan operation. Romelu Lukaku, the powerful Belgian forward who was hailed as the new Didier Drogba when he signed for Chelsea in 2011 for a fee believed to total £13m, rising to £19m with add-ons, was sold for £28m in the summer following loan spells at West Bromwich Albion and Everton.
 
When it works, it can work spectacularly. Thibaut Courtois was signed from Genk in 2011 for a fee that could rise to £7.9m, before establishing himself as the top young goalkeeper in Europe on loan at Atlético Madrid. He has now returned to Chelsea and displaced Petr Cech and is likely to be the club’s number one for years to come. Yet he is an exception rather than the rule.
 
The likely fate of others on the list is more uncertain. Take Kenneth Omeruo, a 20-year-old defender who can play at right-back or centre-back and started every one of Nigeria’s World Cup games. Signed from Standard Liège in Belgium more than two seasons ago, he has never featured in a first-team squad. He spent the 2012-13 season on loan in the Dutch top flight with Den Haag, then came back to Chelsea to train with the first team before being farmed out to Middlesbrough in January. He will be back there this season, as one of three Chelsea loanees.
 
Some, such as the French midfielder Gaël Kakuta, have lost their way. His signature was so highly prized by Chelsea that in 2009 they risked a Fifa transfer ban over the way in which he had been controversially lured from FC Lens. Since then he has ricocheted around the loan system, turning out for Fulham, Bolton, Dijon, Vitesse, Lazio and Rayo Vallecano. In that time, he has managed six appearances for his “parent” club and his progress has stalled. How much that has been down to his own failings and how much down to the lack of clarity surrounding his future is open to debate.
 
Josh McEachran is another frequently cited example. Lauded on his emergence as a future England international possessing the touch and vision so often decried as lacking among homegrown players, he is perennially one more loan move away from fulfilling his potential. Since being blooded by Carlo Ancelotti he has had spells at Swansea City, Middlesbrough, Watford and Wigan Athletic on loan. Some cite a lack of application from the player, others blame Chelsea for his stalled progress. Something, somewhere has gone wrong. He too is now at Vitesse.
 
Nat Chalobah, a midfielder for whom there has long been similarly high hopes, will spend the season on loan at Burnley and is the latest test case of whether Chelsea’s strategy works for young English players. Until one establishes themselves as a first team player, the jury will remain very much out.
 
Left back is another interesting case in point. Emenalo last year pointed to Ryan Bertrand and Patrick van Aanholt as long term successors to Ashley Cole. But Bertrand, now 25, will spend this season on loan at Southampton. Van Aanholt left for Sunderland on a permanent deal. And Chelsea spent £16m on Filipe Luis.
 
Chelsea could justifiably argue that almost all of their loanees are top class players. Most will go onto careers at some level of the game and could turn a healthy profit for the club. The question is whether or not their development has been helped, or hindered, by their peripatetic Stamford Bridge existence.
 
Patrick Bamford, the young striker who impressed in the Football League for Nottingham Forest, MK Dons and Derby County before this season heading to the Riverside to join Omeruo and goalkeeper Jamal Blackman, may never establish himself at Stamford Bridge. But the club are guaranteed a sizeable fee for him if he eventually moves to a mid-table Premier League side.For all the reasons that have been endlessly identified, if not addressed, down the years – high turnover of managers, short-termism of owners (not to mention fans), a lack of consistency in style between age groups – blooding promising young players in the first team is becoming ever harder. Whether the loan system is helping or hindering is moot and the sheer volume of players involved cannot help.
 
The Brazilian Wallace signed in January 2013 and was immediately loaned back to Fluminese. He spent last season on the bench in Italy with Inter Milan and this season has joined the clutch of Chelsea prospects at Vitesse Arnhem. The Arnhem link has caused no end of consternation among rivals in Holland but Chelsea are breaking no rules.
 
Tomas Kalas, so impressive at centre-back when José Mourinho brought him into the side for a crunch clash at Anfield during the title run-in, had spent the previous two years progressing at Vitesse. Yet this season he is back out on loan again, at Cologne, in the belief he is better off playing regular football in the Bundesliga than sitting on the Chelsea bench.The Premier League would like to see greater regulation of the loan system but its chief executive, Richard Scudamore, has privately accepted it is one battle he is unlikely to win, given the need for a two-thirds majority among clubs to alter the rules.
 
“The Premier League has discussed with our clubs the rules surrounding temporary transfers – loans as they are commonly known – and there is currently no mood for change,” said a spokesman. “Regulations surrounding international loans are a matter for Fifa.”
 
Current rules limit Premier League clubs to four players across a season, with no more than two at any one time and no more than one from the same parent club. Instead, it is concentrating on developing its nascent under-21 league in a bid to give clubs another way of providing young players with meaningful competition.
 
The FA grappled with the loan conundrum in its recent FA Commission report but its solution – Premier League B-teams in a new division of the Football League – was widely derided. With Uefa more concerned with an attempt to tackle third-party ownership and Fifa consumed by political posturing and myriad other concerns, there is little momentum for change.
 
Currently the rules state that Premier League clubs can make only two season-long loan signings but there is no limit on how many they can loan out. Aside from concerns over its impact on player development and a nagging feeling of unease about clubs farming players for sale rather than to play on the pitch, there are understandable misgivings about how it might undermine the integrity of competition.
 
Beyond that the extensive use of the loan system can only further loosen the already fragile ties that bind players, clubs and supporters together.
 
Set against the other challenges facing the modern game, the loan system initially appeared a fairly benign sideshow when Karren Brady, the then managing director of newly promoted Birmingham City, argued it could be mutually beneficial for both the big clubs and those aspiring to Premier League stability.
 
However, the 20 owners and chairmen who sat around the table then cannot have envisaged a spread-betting operation on the scale of Chelsea’s or transfers of the scale of Falcao’s or Álvaro Negredo being conducted as loans. It is time, surely, for a fresh look.


