http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/12/garry-monk-swansea-remember-troubles-spur-to-success

Garry Monk wants Swansea to remember troubles as spur to success


They could not have scripted it any better – and in more ways than one. Swansea City take on Chelsea on Saturday at Stamford Bridge less than 24 hours after the red carpet was rolled out at the Empire cinema in Leicester Square for the premiere of Jack to a King, the documentary that tells the remarkable story of the Welsh club’s 10-year journey from the brink of extinction to promotion to the Premier League.
 
It is quite a double header in the bright lights of London for a club that was sold for £1 in 2001 and stood 90 minutes away from relegation to the Conference two years later. “It’s probably the perfect time for the film,” Garry Monk, the Swansea manager, says, smiling. “The Chelsea game just fits in with the story because it’s one you would not believe unless you witnessed it. And that’s why I want people to watch the film – it gives you a big insight.”
 
Jack to a King is an uplifting and inspirational tale. On the eve of the Chelsea fixture, it provided Monk – who has been named manager of the month for August after leading Swansea to three straight league victories, including a 2-1 win at Old Trafford on the opening day – with a good excuse to travel back in time and reminisce on just how far the club has come.
 
Sitting in one of the suites at the Liberty Stadium, the man who has captained Swansea in every division rolled back the years as he recalled the days when players changed in their cars, training sessions took place on council pitches that resembled a “cow field” and, more recently, the embarrassment he felt when Scott Sinclair signed from Chelsea and he had to show the winger the “cold and dingy” room where the kit was kept. “He looked at me as if I was joking,” Monk says.
 
Fiercely proud of Swansea’s history, Monk wants all the players in his squad to be in tune with the Jack to a King storyline, in which fans and local businessmen explain how they came together to keep their club alive, rattling coin buckets outside the old Vetch Field and, in some cases, remortgaging houses, before their incredible rise through the divisions.
 
At the same time, Monk is conscious of the importance of looking forward as well as back. Mocked up as Harry Potter and named as one of four “new wizards” managing in European football on the front of Gazzetta dello Sport’s extra-time supplement this week, Monk has challenged his players to create more history.
 
“If we stop now we have wasted all that hard work,” he says. “The good thing is I understand everything we have been through. That makes me more responsible to ensure we do keep pushing forward. There is expectation now. I understand what we are. People say the Chelsea game is a top-of-the-table clash but we are not going to be title contenders at the end of the season. We know exactly what we are but we are a club looking to progress.
 
“We are never going to be a financial power in this league but we can make sure we are competitive. Survival has to come first – we always have to get to that magic mark of 40 points – but we experienced Europe last season and that was something we really enjoyed and we would like to get back to at some point. We have shown we can win a cup, but we would like to do it [qualify for Europe] through the league as well. I am not saying that is our target for this season. What I am saying is, it is a goal we could have for the future.”
 
Monk is not getting carried away by Swansea’s impressive start to the season but there is much to admire about the way that his team are playing, in particular the attacking trio behind Wilfried Bony. Wayne Routledge and Nathan Dyer, who was unfortunate to miss out on an England call-up for the Norway and Switzerland games, have caught the eye on the flanks while Gylfi Sigurdsson has revelled in between them, scoring once and playing a part in four other Premier League goals.
 
While the club’s wider playing philosophy has not changed, statistics underline the impression Swansea under Monk are much more incisive than they were during Michael Laudrup’s reign. There is less possession – despite playing two of their three league games at home, Swansea are ranked eighth in that category this season – and more penetration, with a much lower pass-to-shot ratio giving them a cutting edge often missing before. Only Chelsea have had more efforts on target than Swansea this season.
 
Underpinning everything is the strong work ethic Monk has instilled in and around the club’s new training ground. The players already know that on Tuesday next week they are in for a double session – something that would have been unheard of under the previous regime – and there is no excuse for not being up to speed with their own performances or upcoming Premier League opponents when all of that information is available on the iPads they were issued with in the summer.
 
All of which feels light years away from some of the early scenes in Jack to a King, when Swansea were at the wrong end of the fourth tier, begging and borrowing to survive.
 
“There’s plenty of clubs who went up and through the leagues – we did it ourselves before – but the actual circumstances the club found itself in and what people had to go through will leave people surprised,” Monk says. “People will enjoy the film even if you are not a football fan.” What chance a sequel?


