http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/10/rumour-mill-transfers-tottenham-klaas-jan-huntelaar

Football transfer rumours: Tottenham to sign Klaas-Jan Huntelaar?


The great Manchester City clear-out begins here. Or in January, to be precise. Matija Nastasic can’t get a game for Manuel Pellegrini’s side, as the hefty figures of Vincent Kompany, Martín Demichelis and Eliaquim Mangala are in the Serbia international’s way, so it could be back to Serie A for the centre-back. He is 21 and Juventus and Roma – not the dregs of the Earth by any standard – could be willing to pay £12m, which is what City paid for him. The defender has yet to feature in the Champions League this season, and would therefore not be cup-tied in the competition, which would be handy. Actually, Nastasic, who signed for City from Fiorentina in 2012, might have the last laugh there, as Roma could reach the last 16 at City’s expense in Group E.
 
Another disgruntled player is Roberto Soldado, although it’s probably fair to say that Tottenham fans are also rather unhappy with the Spain forward, given that Daniel Levy forked out £26m of the Gareth Bale money last year for him. Spurs signed him from Valencia in the summer of last year and he has rewarded them with six goals in 29 appearances. Therefore, you could wonder why Internazionale are keen to buy the 29-year-old. The options at Appiano Gentile must be pretty thin on the ground. If Soldado goes to Serie A, one of Europe’s underachievers could replace him. Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, 31, is in the last year of his contract at Schalke, and the Germans, now managed by Roberto Di Matteo, want to grab £3m for the Dutch international, before he goes somewhere else for free next summer.
 
Over at Sunderland, Jozy Altidore wants away. The USA forward, 25 next month, has not started a game all season and is bored of getting splinters in his backside on the bench. Where is he going? That’s up to his agent to work out. His previous clubs include Xerez and Villarreal in Spain, New York Red Bulls, Bursaspor, and Hull City. Your guess is as good as ours.
 
West Brom are looking to Portugal to beef up their defence. Alan Irvine, the Baggies’ manager, is homing in on Rolando, who plays for Porto. Or used to, as the 29-year-old Portugal international has hardly featured this season. Galatasaray and Internazionale are also said to be hot on his heels.
 
And some good news for Tyler Blackett, 20, if he has not recovered from his red card last month against Leicester. The central defender, drafted in by Louis van Gaal this season, is to get a new deal at Manchester United. Currently earning £2,000 a week, that will rise steeply when he puts pen to paper. So that’s nice.
 
Meanwhile, the out-of-work Neil Lennon could be the man to get Bolton out of their Dougie Freedman-sized hole. He is said to be considering taking charge, despite the alluring offer – and rather better weather – from Al-Ittihad in Saudi Arabia.


