http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/26/nacer-chadli-revitalised-tottenham-mauricio-pochettino

Nacer Chadli revitalised by Mauricio Pochettino’s methods at Tottenham


Nacer Chadli believes Tottenham Hotspur’s squad have warmed to the style being implemented by Mauricio Pochettino, with the group of high-profile signings who struggled to make an impact last season stronger for those initial toils in English football.
 
The Belgium international, a £7m signing from Twente last summer, thrived in a free role and scored twice against Queens Park Rangers in Sunday’s 4-0 win, his second goal supplied by the effervescent Erik Lamela. The Argentinian cost £30m from Roma but made only three league starts last term, his impact nullified by injuries and struggles to adapt; he too revelled as part of a fluid trio of attackers behind Emmanuel Adebayor.
 
There was also an impressive display from Etienne Capoue, another player purchased just before Gareth Bale’s record transfer to Real Madrid a year ago but one whose future had appeared in doubt after a disappointing first season at the club, at the base of midfield.
 
“We gained experience from last season, of course,” Chadli said. “We all know now what we have to do on the pitch and what it takes to play in the Premier League. It is also important that the manager says how we have to play, and so it just a question of making sure we are tough physically because we know we have a lot of talented players.
 
“Personally, last season I struggled with injury at first, came back and, physically, I was down. Therefore it became a very hard season and I was very disappointed with how it went. I wanted it to go much better. Now I am looking forward and with the new manager coming in it gives me a new chance. I didn’t have the best time last season, but I didn’t want to leave like that. I would rather have taken my chances, stayed here and shown people what I can do. Now everybody is happy. Players have been given a chance. We are now more confident and we showed that against QPR.”
 
Pochettino has admitted it will take time for his philosophy and ideas to be properly adopted by his new team following the manager’s summer switch from Southampton but the early signs are promising, with victory in the first three competitive games. The return leg of their Europa League qualifying fixture against AEL Limassol, following the 2-1 win in Cyprus, is on Thursday, followed by Sunday’s visit of Liverpool to north London. The Merseyside club won 5-0 at White Hart Lane last year season and 4-0 at Anfield, yet there is confidence some measure of revenge can be exacted. Certainly the performance against QPR was the most impressive of term yet, with the players clearly comfortable with what was being asked of them by the management.
 
“We have Ade at the top and then, behind him, we had me, Christian [Eriksen] and Erik, who are all encouraged to change position during the game,” said Chadli. “That makes it very difficult for the opponents to choose which one of us to pick up. It’s a new way of playing and we are trying to play like that. It’s like we have three No10s, which means we can also get the full-backs forward in wide positions, which makes five players supporting Ade in attack. It is very different and I have never played this way before. But we have to learn it and it can help us improve.
 
“For me, it is better to come off of the left wing and get into a central position to meet a cross. Or sometimes I can move out to the right and cut inside. It is good for me. When the full-back goes high, I have been told to get into the box because I am tall and can make a difference. But we are learning. Against Liverpool we have something to put right. We’ve learned from the experience of what they did to us last season. It was difficult losing like that.”


