http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/29/everton-steven-naismith-largesse-chelsea-season-tickets

Chelsea the fare for next beneficiaries of Steven Naismith’s largesse


Four unemployed people will attend Chelsea’s visit to Goodison Park on Saturday courtesy of four season tickets that the Everton forward Steven Naismith bought and donated to Jobcentre Plus. The act drew widespread acclaim for a player now lauded by the Gwladys Street for his tireless influence on the team. “We are losing the spine of what football is all about” is how the Scotland international eloquently, alarmingly puts it.
 
Naismith is evidence that Premier League players are not impervious to the call for a reduction in the ticket prices from which they benefit. He insists he is far from alone and his message is timely. Spirit of Shankly and The Blue Union, Liverpool and Everton supporters groups, issued a joint statement this week entitled The Greed of Modern Football after their requests for a reciprocal ticket price reduction for the Anfield and Goodison derbies were rejected by the city’s two clubs.
 
Both groups are involved in the nationwide Affordable Football for All campaign that resulted in each Premier League club agreeing to set aside £200,000 for away supporters’ initiatives last summer. Meanwhile, Arsenal charge non-members £97 for a category A game at the Emirates Stadium. “When we approach clubs with such proposals,” the statement read, “they either hide behind existing plans or say that it requires a national response.
 
“When we approach the Premier League, they tell us they have no power over the clubs and we need to approach them. They are batting us back and forth in the direction of each other, trying to play ping-pong with us. But we won’t be drawn into this game.”
 
It must be clarified that Naismith has not been speaking in relation to this week’s joint statement or demanding his employers reduce admission charges to Goodison, a stadium at the lower end of the Premier League price scale. But, like many, he looks on with admiration and envy at the model of the Bundesliga.
 
“It’s hard because so many different people [at clubs] have so many targets to hit and they are all contradicting each other,” says Naismith, who recalls paying £20 to get into Ibrox in Glasgow. “You cannot look too far from German football: how they play, how they run the league. I remember reading that Bayern Munich can afford to lower their prices and it means they are losing out on around £2m. That is not a lot of money to Bayern but to a club like Everton £2m is a lot of money. It is about finding the right balance. But prices can’t get out of hand because we are losing the spine of what football is all about.”
 
Naismith’s latest act of generosity – he supports homeless shelters in Glasgow and Liverpool, including paying to host their Christmas dinners – stemmed from that fear over football’s future. “The price of football is getting more expensive and more fans who’d probably gone for years were struggling to go any more, that was the idea behind it,” explains the 27-year-old. “But without being able to just pick people, and not knowing if you’d picked the right ones, we thought we would speak to the local job centres who would know who was trying hard to get back into employment and maybe had a few setbacks and could do with a morale boost. It’s worked really well. We spoke to the people who went to the first game and they were delighted. They said it made a really big difference to them.
 
“They were mad-keen Evertonians who hadn’t been for a few years because of the prices but I was amazed how much they knew about Everton and its history. On the same day we met one of the guys, he got a job. He’d been knocked back for a couple so it was a great day for him. It is a simple idea that doesn’t take too much organising. Everton are doing a great job distributing them. They make sure they get to the right people.”
 
The former Kilmarnock and Rangers player has made an impressive start to the season with Everton, scoring against Leicester City and Arsenal only for late equalisers to reduce them to two 2-2 draws. His form is a continuation of his influence on the run-in last season and, after a difficult start to his Everton career due to injury and being deployed out wide, his name now reverberates from the Gwladys Street end.
 
Chelsea’s arrival will focus the spotlight on Romelu Lukaku and Samuel Eto’o against their former club but Naismith’s contribution should not be overlooked. “We needed to make big signings to progress the club,” says the striker, who scored the winner in the corresponding fixture last season.
 
“But I never thought I should play second fiddle to anyone. I came with the mindset that I can play in the team and contribute to it. I always believed in my ability. It’s nice to hear people talking about you but that can be short-lived.”


