http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/oct/05/chelsea-arsenal-premier-league-talking-points-hazard-ozil-fabregas-mourinho-wenger

Chelsea 2-0 Arsenal: five Premier League talking points | Dominic Fifield

The rules on concussion need to be considerably tightened 
The Premier League introduced new rules for head injuries this season though, already, they feel rather inadequate. Players with a “suspected concussion” are now required to leave the pitch for treatment, with their continued participation down not to the coaching staff but the club doctor. Yet, 10 minutes into this game, Alexis Sanchez’s right thigh made heavy contact with Thibaut Courtois’ head. He was assessed on the pitch for 56 seconds by two members of Chelsea’s medical staff – the “third” doctor in the tunnel was not called on – and, having answered the standard questions and indicated a desire to play on, the Belgian was permitted to continue. Thirteen minutes later he was down on the touchline with liquid oozing from his right ear and subsequently taken to hospital for precautionary tests. Which begs the question, “Is 56 seconds sufficient to make a proper assessment of such an injury?”
 Grown men should know better 
This was already a niggly, fractious contest out on the pitch before the two men who should set the tone were engaging in handbags on the touchline. A foul from Gary Cahill on Alexis Sánchez enraged Arsène Wenger, who marched out of his technical area towards the incident and was duly blocked by José Mourinho, waving the Arsenal manager back. There was a push from the visitor, and another later as they squared up once more, though no sanction from Martin Atkinson who saw the incident clearly – as did his fourth official – to ensure no chance of retrospective action. Even so, it was all a bit too pantomime for comfort. Certainly, neither of the senior men could rebuke their assistants, Steve Bould and Rui Faria, for subsequently engaging in their own verbal spat. A bad example had been set early.
 Fàbregas was merely biding his time 
The atmosphere had partly been charged, of course, by Cesc Fàbregas’s presence in Chelsea colours against the club for whom he played 306 games earlier in his career. He had been billed as the villain prior to kick-off, with boos from those filing into the away end – once the flares had cleared or been seized prior to kick-off – greeting the announcement of his name. Yet the Spaniard was largely becalmed, his probing passes delivered from deep with Mathieu Flamini usually snapping at his heels. Then, just as the contest felt back on edge, he conjured a trademark glorious pass to cut out Arsenal’s back line and Diego Costa converted. He celebrated with the striker but this must all have been a strange experience for the 27-year-old. A seventh Premier League assist of the season made this reunion rewarding.
 In truth it was Hazard who took centre stage 
Mildly criticised by the management after last weekend’s victory over Aston Villa, when his performance dipped in terms of productivity, the Belgian was at his elusive best here. His swerving run away from Santi Cazorla and Calum Chambers into the area, to draw the foul from Laurent Koscielny for his team’s first-half penalty, took the breath away. There were darts down the flank, slaloms inside and effervescence throughout. It is perhaps unfair to compare but Mesut Özil cost almost £10m more than Hazard. Both crave a No10 berth but are currently operating from wide, yet their respective displays were poles apart.
 At least Arsenal were more resilient 
Washed away 6-0 in this fixture last season, Arsenal did at least resist more effectively this time. Jack Wilshere and Flamini were tight on opponents throughout and Sánchez and even Cazorla worked feverishly. Their defensive nous might have been tested more sternly had Koscielny been dismissed for conceding the penalty or, indeed, Chambers followed after blocking Hazard when already on a booking. (Danny Welbeck might also have seen red for a two-footed lunge at Fabregas in the final minute.) But there was plenty to admire in their solidity until they over-committed in search of an equaliser. The problem was it all went unrewarded. Wenger has now gone 12 games against Mourinho without enjoying a victory. His team have lost their unbeaten league record and are now nine points off the top.


