http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/02/steven-gerrrard-brendan-rodgers-liverpool-champions-league

Steven Gerrard says Liverpool were far ‘too soft’ in defeat by Basel


Steven Gerrard was scathingly critical of Liverpool after a 1-0 Champions League defeat at Basel on Wednesday night, describing the performance as “too soft” and claiming that their Swiss opponents were hungrier for the victory.
 
The Liverpool captain’s brutal assessment followed a merited loss that could prove costly in a group led by the European champions, Real Madrid, their opponents in their next two matches in the tournament.
 
Marco Streller scored the only goal here as Martin Skrtel, on his 250th appearance for Liverpool, failed to deal with a Basel corner.
 
Mario Balotelli endured a poor game and headed straight down the tunnel on the final whistle despite requests from his manager, Brendan Rodgers, for players to applaud Liverpool’s travelling support.
 
“We didn’t deserve anything out of this game today,” Gerrard said. “I thought we were too soft all over the pitch and I thought they wanted it more, which is very disappointing. Conceding again from a set-piece isn’t good enough so we need to get that right. You are not going to win football matches if you keep conceding from set-pieces.”
 
The midfielder, pressed on what he regarded as Liverpool’s lack of appetite, said: “It does hurt but it’s true.” He added on Sky Sports: “I thought we were second-best at times tonight. I think they are an OK team but I wouldn’t say we were played off the park or that they were fantastic. But we made it easy for them and we wanted something out of this game – at least a draw. We came for the win, I expected us to win, so it was very disappointing.”
 
Defeat by the Swiss champions follows a below-expectation start to the Premier League which has yielded seven points from six matches, including a home draw against Everton on Saturday.
 
“There were signs against Everton that we were coming back closer to where we wanted to be,” Gerrard said. “We were aggressive with and without the ball against Everton but we went back to where we have been for most of the season tonight, which is not good enough.”
           Brendan Rodgers reflects on Liverpool’s 1-0 defeat to Basel.    
Liverpool offered little threat and Rodgers, too, was critical of the performance. “It was far too soft and not the first time either,” he said. “We lost contact again [for the goal] and it was a very disappointing one to concede after all the work we’ve done on the training ground. We never got going in first 25 minutes and gave it away too easily but got into it after that and I thought we were the better team after that. We created some chances but conceded a soft goal and then it’s difficult.”
 
The manager said of Balotelli: “Mario worked hard [but] needs to do more. He knows his job is to create, score and to get into the area and we’re working hard on it. I’m not sure if he went back out to say thanks to the fans because I came straight to the press conference.”
 
The only positive for Rodgers was the England manager Roy Hodgson’s decision not to select Daniel Sturridge for the games against San Marino and Estonia next week. The Liverpool manager had said Sturridge, injured while training with England last month, would not be fit even if he took part in the Premier League game against West Bromwich Albion on Saturday.
 
Liverpool were without Sturridge for a sixth successive game here and Rodgers said: “I spoke to Roy today and the agreement will be that Daniel will not meet up with England. It’s best for both parties really. I’m not sure Daniel will be fit for the weekend. At this moment he won’t be in the squad and I am sure Roy will confirm that tomorrow. For Dan now the next two weeks is a case of getting up to speed to make sure he’s fit to play for us”
 
Sturridge has agreed terms on a new, incentivised five-year contract which could be worth around £150,000 a week.


