http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/22/martin-skrtel-liverpool-arsenal

Martin Skrtel claims Liverpool have turned corner after Arsenal draw


Martin Skrtel believes Liverpool’s performance against Arsenal confirmed Brendan Rodgers’ team are pulling themselves out of the trough that threatened to engulf their season.
 
Liverpool were indebted to Skrtel’s 97th-minute goal for a draw against Arsène Wenger’s side at Anfield on Sunday but their dominant display, in terms of possession and chances created, was a marked improvement on recent Premier League outings.
 
Rodgers claimed that Liverpool’s dominance was more emphatic than during February’s 5-1 rout of Arsenal and that a top-four finish is not beyond his side despite their languishing nine points adrift of fourth-placed West Ham United. Skrtel insists Liverpool’s form in their past three matches – including the 3-0 defeat at Manchester United – was evidence the team is recovering from the dreadful run that heightened pressure on the manager and cost the club its Champions League status.
 
“In the last three games against United, Bournemouth and Arsenal we have shown great performances and we need to keep going this way and it will be good for us and results will be better,” said the Slovakia defender. “We showed a great performance against Arsenal and we moved the ball really well. It was not an easy game, it was tough as it always is against Arsenal, but if we carry on in this way it can be good for us.”
 
Rodgers’ switch to a 3-4-2-1 system has enabled Liverpool to make a tentative step forwards, with Adam Lallana and Philippe Coutinho more prominent behind Raheem Sterling in attack. “It is different but it is working,” said Skrtel, who is one of several Anfield defenders whose long-term future remains unresolved – he has 18 months remaining on his current contract with talks yet to begin on a fresh deal. “We played a few games last season like this but it is up to the manager whether we carry on or not. In the last three games we have got closer to how we played last season. We moved the ball well and created a lot of chances. We need to improve a few things and it will be better for us.”
 
Skrtel had eight staples inserted into a head wound during Sunday’s game after an accidental collision with Olivier Giroud’s studs, and his equaliser arrived during nine minutes of time added-on for the treatment. He explained: “It was sore afterwards but I was glad I could carry on and be there to the end. Eight staples, staples again. I spoke to the doctor on the pitch and he said it would be all right to carry on and I am glad I stayed there. The goal and the performance can help turn things around because there has been a lot of criticism of us and I hope it will change and be better in the second half of the season.”


