http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/21/brad-smith-socceroos-squad-liverpool

Australia call up Liverpool and England Under-21 defender Brad Smith


The England Under-21 defender Brad Smith has been called into the Australia squad for their friendlies against Belgium and Saudi Arabia. 
 
Smith, who is currently on loan at Swindon Town from Liverpool, was born in Australia but moved to England as a teenager. 
 
“He made his debut for Liverpool at the back-end of last year and is rated highly,” the Socceroos coach, Ange Postecoglou, told FFA TV. “He is a player we’ve been monitoring since I’ve been in the job anyway, and he plays in a position where we don’t have a great deal of depth – he plays left back.”
 
“And he’s very committed to playing for Australia. And after having chats with him we were very keen to get him in the green and gold. He’s quick and from our perspective, these games are a chance to maybe expose some young players to international football, and hopefully create some depth in areas where we’re light on.” 
 
Postecoglou also called up two of the A-League’s most talented young players, Tomi Juric and Terry Antonis. They join four other uncapped players in the 20-man squad: Smith, Chris Herd, Trent Sainsbury and Bailey Wright. 
 
Postecoglou said he wanted to look at a range of players before next year’s Asian Cup, which Australia will host. “What was pretty evident to me was we needed to broaden our base and get some depth in various positions,” Postecoglou said.
 
“The next series of games are really important in trying to get some depth and broaden that base. We’ll be pretty bold in the way we select our squads and give some people an opportunity.”
 
Australia had several senior players unavailable for selection due to injury including Rhys Williams, Curtis Good, Tom Rogic, Matthew Spiranovic, Matt McKay and Ivan Franjic. The experienced duo of Mark Bresciano and Josh Kennedy were left out but Postecoglou said they are still under consideration for friendlies in October and November.
 Socceroos squad to play Belgium and Saudi Arabia 
Terry Antonis, Joshua Brillante, Tim Cahill, Jason Davidson, Ben Halloran, Chris Herd, Mile Jedinak, Tomi Juric, Robbie Kruse, Mitchell Langerak, Matthew Leckie, Massimo Luongo, Mark Milligan, Tommy Oar, Mat Ryan, Trent Sainsbury, Brad Smith, Carl Valeri, Alex Wilkinson, Bailey Wright. 


