http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/dec/28/chelsea-oscar-invention-matt-targett-southampton

Southampton 1-1 Chelsea: five talking points from St Mary’s | Jacob Steinberg

Targett assured already 
 
 
Another Southampton game, another chance to assess one of the kids off that enviable production line. The terms of Ryan Bertrand’s loan deal meant Southampton could not play him against Chelsea and losing one of their senior defenders against the leaders would have been a problem for some. But not the Saints. Bertrand’s absence meant Matt Targett could make his first league start and Ronald Koeman’s trust in the 19-year-old explains why Southampton felt they could absorb the loss of Luke Shaw to Manchester United. Targett is one of seven academy graduates to feature in the league this season and he was assured at left-back. Is there another club in the country with as much faith in their youth players?
 Another diving controversy 
 
 
The biggest heart-in-mouth moment for Targett was when Cesc Fàbregas fell over his outstretched leg in the Southampton area early in the second half and appealed for a penalty. Targett, however, was reprieved when Anthony Taylor decided to book Fàbregas for diving, much to the amazement of the Chelsea midfielder. Fàbregas was insistent he had been fouled. There was contact with Targett, although arguably not enough to make Fàbregas go to ground, and Chelsea will argue that the recent diving allegations made against them played tricks on Taylor’s mind when he concluded Fàbregas was guilty of simulation. Either way it is starting to become a problem for Chelsea and this latest incident is unlikely to have amused José Mourinho.
 Hazard exposes Yoshida 
You feared for Southampton’s chances of containing Eden Hazard when it emerged Maya Yoshida was deputising for the injured Nathaniel Clyne at right‑back. Yoshida is reliable enough when providing cover at centre-back but it was always going to be a tall order for him in an unfamiliar position to keep Hazard under control for 90 minutes. Sure enough Yoshida was caught out when Fàbregas’s stabbed pass released Hazard just before half-time and, along with Toby Alderweireld, he could do nothing to stop the Belgian equalising from Chelsea. Admittedly it was a wonderful piece of individual skill from Hazard but he might not have found it so easy confronted by Clyne, and Yoshida was replaced early in the second half.
 Tadic clicks with Mané 
A major factor in Southampton’s recent wobble was that Dusan Tadic and Sadio Mané, their main creative outlets, had suffered dips in form after catching the eye with a series of outstanding performances before the clocks went back. Perhaps that was inevitable given neither Tadic nor Mané had played in England before joining Southampton last summer, but they are now rediscovering that early-season spark. Their combination when Southampton went ahead in the first half was a joy, Tadic’s ball over the Chelsea defence leaving John Terry exposed and Mané beating Thibaut Courtois with an expert lofted finish. The goal owed much to Koeman’s tactical acumen – the Southampton manager’s decision to move Mané inside worked handsomely.
 Blues miss Oscar’s invention 
The pressure from Chelsea as they went in search of a winning goal in the second half was incessant but it did not bring them a reward and they were forced to settle for a 1-1 draw that was set to give Manchester City further hope in the title race until they slipped up against Burnley. Chelsea were not at their unforgiving best in the face of Southampton’s organised defence and without the probing of Oscar behind Diego Costa there was often a lack of invention to their attacks, leading to a failure to create enough chances. André Schürrle, who was replaced by Willian at half-time, disappointed, Costa was marginalised and Chelsea could not make the breakthrough even after Morgan Schneiderlin’s late red card. Southampton, throwing themselves in front of everything by the end, deserved their point for their tenacity.


