http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/12/newcastle-john-carver-moussa-sissoko

John Carver looking for big show from Moussa Sissoko against Liverpool


John Carver is hoping for a much improved performance from Moussa Sissoko as his struggling Newcastle United side endeavour to redeem themselves at Liverpool on Monday night.
 
The France midfielder was totally dominated by Lee Cattermole as Sunderland won the north-east derby 1-0 at the Stadium of Light last Sunday and Newcastle’s head coach is seeking a reaction at Anfield.
 
“You want Moussa dominating games with his pace and strength,” Carver said. “You want him running forward but, at the moment, that is not happening.”
 
While many Newcastle fans suspect Sissoko is already planning a summer escape from Tyneside the France international is serving as Newcastle’s stand-in captain while Fabricio Coloccini completes a suspension.
 
“The captain is your leader and what people don’t see is that Moussa is excellent with the French guys,” Carver said. “He keeps them in check, he is the enforcer, which is good. Sometimes you give extra responsibilities to players and they thrive, sometimes they freeze. I’ve seen Moussa have excellent games as captain but he had one of his quieter games against Sunderland.”
 
There could not be a better time for Sissoko to help Newcastle secure their first win at Anfield since 1994 – and Carver only his third victory since succeeding Alan Pardew at New Year.
 
“It’s a great place to go,” said Carver who has warned that while the team stay stuck on 35 points, relegation remains a risk. “For me the history of football is Anfield. If you don’t want to go there and have a go then don’t be a professional footballer. “
 
While he acknowledges that the lack of competition for places prompted by Newcastle’s raft of long-term injuries and suspensions does not help his cause, Carver believes his players should not be seeking incentives to perform properly.
 
“It shouldn’t make a difference whether there’s a group of 26 players available or 14 they should want to play and do their best,” he said. “They are playing for new contracts, for pride, for their families, for everything. When I was a player I always wanted to play.”
 
There is a feeling certain Newcastle players are already mentally on the beach in readiness for their summer holidays. Accordingly, and despite the extremely limited resources at his disposal, Carver is strongly tempted to make significant alterations to the side that surrendered at Sunderland.
 
“Maybe I need to change the team,” he said. “Maybe I need to change the positions of one or two players and hope that sparks something. Going to Anfield we are going to need characters. I want to see some energy but I didn’t see any energy last weekend, Sunderland outworked us. Hopefully there will be a response.”
 
If only Carver had 11 players like Jack Colback. Currently playing out of position at left-back, the free transfer from Sunderland last summer has impressed consistently, particularly when deployed in his preferred central-midfield role.
 
“You talk abut Moussa which is interesting,” Carver said. “But look at Jack. Because of circumstances he has had to play in a different position but he still drives the team forward. Jack has been our most consistent performer of the season.”


