http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/29/liverpool-daniel-sturridge-mentally-stronger

Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge says he is mentally stronger after absence


Daniel Sturridge believes that he is psychologically stronger for his injury torment and has been backed by his manager, Brendan Rodgers, to propel Liverpool towards a top-four finish.
 
Sturridge will make his long-awaited Liverpool comeback against West Ham United tomorrow after five months out due to a succession of injuries.
 
The striker scored once in three appearances at the start of the season but has not played since 31 August due to a thigh strain suffered while training with England, a calf injury collected on his return to training with Liverpool plus a second thigh problem in November.
 
The 25-year-old spent Christmas and new year working with the Boston Red Sox’s medical team to assist his recovery and, though he is not guaranteed to start against Sam Allardyce’s side, he will be involved at Anfield.
 
“I am feeling very, very good,” said the England international. “I don’t know if I will play, that is how it is at Liverpool. I am just training hard and if the gaffer feels it is the moment for me to get involved that is what it will be but for the moment I am hoping.
 
“It has been very frustrating for myself but it has been a learning curve in terms of these experiences. They have allowed me to learn something new and for me [being out] has been great for the mental side of the game. I have improved that and now I am very, very anxious to get out there and play. I am champing at the bit.”
 
Sturridge’s mental approach has been questioned in the past and he admits the time out has strengthened his desire for success at Liverpool. “I am desperate for success and these moments are ones that open your eyes to what you need to do in life and what you need to do for your career.
 
“I am grateful for what I have been through even though a lot of people look at it and say ‘he’s been unlucky’. But these things happen for a reason and everyone goes through certain situations. I am just desperate for success right now and I can’t wait to get back out there on the pitch.”
 
Injuries to Sturridge, who scored 21 league goals last season, compounded the loss of Luis Suárez from Liverpool’s attack and Rodgers believes his return will have a major bearing on the team’s form for the remainder of this campaign.
 
“There is no question his absence has had a huge impact on our season,” the Liverpool manager said. “You can trace it back to the Tottenham game and the reference he was for the team that day [when Liverpool won 3-0 at White Hart Lane]. He’s not played since. Thankfully we have nailed down a way of working in the last few months and Daniel will add to that. At this moment he looks in top class condition.
 
“We had a tough run over Christmas and our idea was to be there or thereabouts by the end of January. With Daniel coming back we will be in a great position for the second half of the season.”


