http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/30/brendan-rodgers-steven-gerrard-700-games

Brendan Rodgers: Steven Gerrard could be Liverpool’s last 700-game man


Brendan Rodgers believes Steven Gerrard could be the last player to make 700 appearances for Liverpool and has offered to guide the midfielder should he eventually move into management.
 
Gerrard will become only the third player in Liverpool’s history to reach the 700-game landmark on his next outing for the club which, if selected, would be against West Ham United on Saturday.
 
Liverpool also have an FA Cup replay at Bolton Wanderers on Wednesday plus the derby at Everton next week and Rodgers has resisted starting the 34-year-old three times in quick succession recently.
 
It was Gerrard’s determination to continue playing regularly that influenced his decision to leave Liverpool this summer and join LA Galaxy.
 
The captain has been told, however, that a future role is open to him at Anfield and Rodgers is willing to assist in Gerrard’s transition into coaching or management should it materialise.
 
Asked if he regretted Gerrard’s summer departure, the Liverpool manager said: “Very much so. I made it clear to Steven I wanted him to stay for as long as I am here but it wasn’t to be. He’s had a tough decision to make as much about life as football.
 
“If he wants to move into coaching or management once he sees his time finishing as a player, then I can point him in the right direction and help with that. I have done the dirty work and it is certainly a different story being a manager.
 
“I speak regularly with Garry Monk who is in his first job in management and what you feel as a player you feel 50 times more as a manager.
 
“If that was the route Steven wanted to go down and wanted to come in here to learn, then that door is always open. We will remain in contact when he moves on because he is a wonderful man.”
 
Ian Callaghan and Jamie Carragher are the only players to have appeared more than 700 times for Liverpool, 857 and 737 respectively, and Rodgers doubts there will be a fourth member of that illustrious club after Gerrard.
 
The Liverpool manager added: “It’s an incredible achievement and I’m not sure it will happen again. It will take some achievement by any player to do that again. His life and journey here have been remarkable and you see how committed and focused he still is. It is absolutely incredible and there are more appearances to come.”
 
Liverpool have taken 14 points from 18 since their last defeat in the Premier League, at Manchester United on 14 December, and Daniel Sturridge will be available for the first time in five months against Sam Allardyce’s team.
 
Rodgers is adamant the Capital One Cup semi-final defeat by Chelsea on Tuesday will not disrupt the team’s momentum. He said: “Chelsea arrived at Anfield in probably their best moment and we dominated that game but didn’t have the efficiency in the final third. Then the other night we could have been out of sight by half time. That gives me great confidence. If we have the quality at the top end of the field to finish off all that great play, then we will be hard to stop.”


