http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/04/burnley-danny-ings-tottenham-hotspur-harry-kane

Burnley’s Danny Ings has pedigree to match Tottenham’s Harry Kane


Scouts from no fewer than three Bundesliga clubs watched Danny Ings in action for England Under-21s at Middlesbrough last week, with Schalke, Borussia Mönchengladbach and Borussia Dortmund joining a list of admirers that already includes Liverpool, Manchester United and Real Sociedad.
 
It could be that a decision about the Burnley player’s future destination has already been made – he is out of contract at the end of the season and has been free to talk to suitors for a while – but anyone interested in running the rule over England strikers of the foreseeable future should make for Turf Moor on Sunday where Ings and Harry Kane are going head to head.
 
Kane has just made his full England debut, scored a goal within seconds and generally become the talk of the nation, creating the impression that Ings has been overtaken already. Though older than his Tottenham rival at 22, Ings has yet to make the step up from Gareth Southgate’s Under-21s, and is expecting to feature in the European Championship at that level this summer. Kane has that tournament on his radar, though you do not score 29 goals in your breakthrough season without getting noticed, and the Spurs striker’s elevation to star status has inevitably led to competing demands on his time in the summer months.
 
Ings’ haul of goals stands at a relatively modest nine, all in the league, though of course he has been playing for a newly promoted side punching above its financial weight in a relegation struggle. The direct comparison with Kane could be misleading; certainly Ings’ team-mate Kieran Trippier has no doubt the Burnley striker will be able to hold his own at a higher level.
 
“Harry Kane has done absolutely magnificently this season, there’s no question about that,” Trippier says. “We found we could stop him playing to an extent, we are going to have to work on doing that again, but it is not just him you have to keep quiet. Look at the quality of players Kane has around him at Tottenham. Christian Eriksen springs to mind but you could go all through the team.
 
“I don’t want to knock what Kane has achieved, the goals speak for themselves and he fully deserved his call-up, but Ingsy is in his first season in the Premier League and he has done very well too. I don’t see any reason why they can’t both go to the top. Ingsy is a fantastic footballer and still only 22. I think he will produce in the next couple of years and soon be scoring 20 or 30 goals a season. He’ll be one of the top strikers in the Premier League, without a doubt.”
 
If he stays in the Premier League, that is. One of the reasons Ings has attracted attention from abroad, over and above his widely advertised availability at the end of the season, is his technical ability. The Burnley striker is good at all aspects of the game: his heading ability is as good as his shooting, his passing can be as inspired as his finishing and so on. But in addition to positional awareness and the knack of making space for himself by pulling away from his marker, he has the control and speed of thought and movement that beats opponents almost before they realise what is happening.
 
“Danny’s first five yards can be frightening,” Trippier says. “He’s rapid with the ball at his feet but so is Harry, though what Harry tends to do is just get into the right place before the ball comes. Sometimes he comes into the hole, then before you know it he is in behind you, that’s how he gets a lot of his goals. They are similar players in some ways but not to the extent where they couldn’t play together. They have played together with England [Under-21s] and they have done well.”
 
Spurs go to Turf Moor in pretty much the same frame of mind as Manchester City three weeks ago, knowing that defeat would draw a decisive line under their stated Premier League objective for another season. Tottenham are about as far off a top-four finish as City were from regaining the leadership from Chelsea, whereas the motivation for Burnley remains the same. Premier League survival is still possible, even though City, Spurs and Arsenal make a tough run of home opponents, and home fixtures simply have to be converted into points to keep the season alive.
 
Since picking up a point at Chelsea in mid-February, Burnley have been beaten at Liverpool and Southampton, lost at home to Swansea and managed that famous victory over City last month. Now they must face Spurs and then Arsenal before a few opponents from lower down the table are encountered in the run-in.
 
There is no chance of a Sean Dyche team entertaining the luxury of picking its matches. Every point is there to be fought for, no game is seen as more “winnable” than the next. “Every game is a vital game,” Trippier says, echoing his manager’s weekly sermons on the subject. “You know at the start of the season that you have to play everyone else in the league and it is best not to look too far ahead.
 
“We are a team on a tight budget and some weeks, most weeks in fact, we are up against world-class players, but this is what we all signed up for, this is where we want to be. Everybody in the Burnley side believes in each other, and sometimes that can be better than going out buying players. If you worry about the players you are up against it can mess with your head. We are happy to do what the gaffer says and concentrate on our own game.
 
“We don’t mind tough games. We had a tough start to the season, 10 games without a win, but we are still here, still fighting and believing. We just need to carry on doing what we did against City – press them high and make sure they feel uncomfortable. No one at this club is downbeat. We still have a fighting chance.”


