http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/25/football-transfer-rumours-danny-ings-liverpool-chelsea

Football transfer rumours: Danny Ings to spurn Chelsea for Liverpool?


Premier League bosses have been cursing themselves as they suddenly realised they sold themselves way short when they accepted a paltry £5.1bn for the league’s screening rights. It was a revelation in a far-away interview that made the club owners realise they could have got at least double that amount if only they’d waited a little. Waited, to be precise, for hunky Hervé Renard to strut into view and begin smouldering on a sideline in the English top flight. The Mills and Boon character and two-times African champion has disclosed that, fresh from turning Ivory Coast into the champions of Africa, he aspires to sexing up some top-flight English club.
 
“The Premier League is my No1 priority,” sweet-talked the Frenchman, as Sky programmers tried to imagine the trailers they could run for matches featuring Renard and, say, José Mourinho but had to stop because they kept swooning.
 
Renard’s coaching credentials, not to mention the fact that when he was trying to make his name as a coach he worked for eight years as a garbage collector, might also make him an ideal appointment for certain clubs.
 
Aston Villa, for instance. But apparently Randy Lerner does not think that Villa need a dishy makeover, which comes as a surprise to the Mill. That’s not a comment on their current manager’s looks – Tim Sherwood fancies himself – but on the obscene way Villa have been playing for what feels like a million years. Still, Lerner reckons the mere fact that Villa are in line to pocket their share of the new TV rights makes them attractive enough. So he has slapped a £150m price tag on the club. Well here is some advice for free, Mr Lerner: sell pronto because relegation does ugly things to the value of a club.
 
The Daily Mirror tells us that Danny Ings thinks Liverpool’s offer is the fairest of all that he has received, so in the summer he will depart Burnley for Anfield, to the chagrin of Real Sociedad, Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea.
 
So David Moyes looks like missing out on Ings but he could have more luck in his dealings with Everton, where he is remembered with great fondness: he is, after all, the man who helped them get £27.5m for Marouane Fellaini. They’ll struggle to get that much for Bryan Oviedo but you can bet your bottom dollar they will try. So go on, bet your bottom dollar with one of our lovely betting partners.
 
Celtic’s hope of buying John Guidetti on a permanent deal from Manchester City may be scuppered by an offer from Marseille, who are prepared to make the 22-year-old striker their highest-paid player. Marseille’s winger André Ayew, meanwhile, could be on his way to Liverpool.
 
Arsenal and Manchester City are stalking Cagliari’s 18-year-old midfielder Godfred Donsah, who is also a target for Tottenham.
 
Manchester United are confident of hanging on the David de Gea, mainly because Real Madrid’s interest in the goalkeeper has sagged. And here your interest in today’s Mill ends. Thanks if you made it this far.


