http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/mar/08/robust-style-of-rudy-gestede-rouses-blackburn-and-shakes-up-liverpool

Robust style of Rudy Gestede rouses Blackburn and shakes Liverpool | Jamie Jackson


The bad news for Blackburn Rovers was that Josh King, their hat-trick hero from the 4-1 dismantling of Stoke City in the last round, was out with a hamstring problem. The good tidings were that Rudy Gestede, scorer of the other goal in that tie at Ewood Park, was in the mood to be the leading man and Liverpool struggled, particularly before the break, to contain the muscle, bustle and hustle of the 6ft 4in Benin striker.
 
Time and time again the ball was played into the 26-year-old and his strong frame and impressively deft touch ensured he kept the ball no matter how Brendan Rodgers’s team crowded him. Gestede, who had scored 15 goals in 33 games this season for the Championship club before this tie, was emblematic of how Rovers pinned their opponents back. Gary Bowyer, the Blackburn manager, said: “In the first half we took the game to Liverpool in the areas we could exploit. Rudy was unplayable at times for us.”
 
Liverpool were shaken from the moment Martin Skrtel went off with a head injury in the third minute, though they should have been able to cope with that. The starting line-up sent out by Rodgers featured Raheem Sterling, Daniel Sturridge, Philippe Countinho and Jordan Henderson, and Liverpool went into this tie as England’s form team.
 
The image that accompanied Rodgers’ programme notes for this Cup quarter-final illustrated that perfectly: dressed in training-ground attire the Northern Irishman was pictured overseeing a practice session from the touchline, a beaming smile on his face.
 
No wonder. Liverpool are the only club in all four divisions yet to suffer a league defeat in 2015. In 17 games in all competitions since the turn of the year only Besiktas, in the Europa League, had defeated them in the regulation 90 minutes. Yet by the interval Rodgers was smiling far less after the disruption caused by Skrtel’s removal meant a reshaped rearguard that had been pretty far from robust.
 
Kolo Touré took the Slovak’s place in Liverpool’s three-man defence, with Glen Johnson and Dejan Lovren either side of him. Although the Ivorian managed to find the net after 33 minutes before the effort was correctly ruled offside, Rodgers’s half-time talk was probably taken up with getting a grip on Gestede and then taking control of the match by keeping the ball and injecting some zip into the side’s play.
 
The manager may also have reminded his team that they were potentially only 45 minutes away from a Wembley semi-final, particularly as he had spoken beforehand of the ambition this season to seriously challenge for the FA and League Cups.
 
“This is the first time during my spell at the club where we have properly been able to target success in the domestic cups,” Rodgers said. “During my first season we were trying to introduce a way of working to the players, against the backdrop of a depleted squad. Last season our lack of depth, squad-wise, meant the priority had to be the Premier League and making a proper challenge to qualify for the Champions League. Ultimately we exceeded expectations there.”
 
The visitors started the second half coming close to doing precisely the same, as Rovers continued their aerial bombardment. Craig Conway fired in a corner from the right and Liverpool were again second best as Alex Baptiste rose to send in a header that Simon Mignolet saved smartly.
 
Yet if Liverpool now cancelled out the Gestede-factor by dominating the second half, a new affliction hampered them. This might be termed as a kind of sideways-itis as back and forth, left to right, the ball went across the Anfield turf with Sterling, Sturridge, Coutinho and the second-half replacement, Mario Balotelli, unable to break down the stubborn Rovers.
 
A replay increasingly looked likely and a 35-yard effort from Balotelli that was still rising as it sailed over Simon Eastwood’s bar summed Liverpool’s frustrations up.
 
The sentiment was shared by the ever-more restless home crowd, though as Rodgers said afterwards Liverpool are in the hat for the semi-final draw.
 
So, too, are Rovers. Do not count them out when the clubs play again in early April.


