http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/05/daniel-sturridge-liverpool-surgery-new-york-boston-brendan-rodgers

Injury-cursed Liverpool striker Daniel Sturridge has hip surgery


Daniel Sturridge has undergone surgery on a hip injury in New York after Liverpool decided not to risk a recurrence of the problem that has ended the striker’s season. The Liverpool forward travelled to Boston last week for an assessment on an injury that flared up during his last competitive appearance for Brendan Rodgers’ team, the 1-0 FA Cup quarter-final replay win at Blackburn Rovers on 8 April. Following consultation with the medical staff attached to Fenway Sports Group, the owners of both Liverpool and the Boston Red Sox, it was agreed that surgery represented a better long-term option than rest. After the procedure, Sturridge posted a message which read: “I have had a successful operation on my hip today and I want to thank God for allowing that to be possible. Onwards and upwards from here. Thanks for the support.”
 
It is understood the procedure was carried out by Bryan Kelly, an orthopaedic surgeon who specialises in non-arthritic disorders around the hip and is an associate team physician for the New York Giants and the New York Red Bull MLS team.
 
Rodgers had said on Friday: “The owners are showing their support by making sure the players get the best possible treatment they can and if there are specialists in other fields in different countries then we’ll do everything we can to get them fit. The importance he has for us is pretty clear when he’s fully fit and we’ve been liaising regularly to try to find the reasons for his level of fitness not being consistent.”
 
Liverpool have not put a timeframe on the striker’s recovery but Sturridge will have to work on his recovery programme throughout the summer break to be ready for the start of pre-season training. He will not be available for England’s friendly against the Republic of Ireland in Dublin on 7 June or the European Championship qualifier in Slovenia a week later.
 
While the aim is to have Sturridge fully fit for next season, the striker may find his status as Liverpool’s leading striker threatened by the time the new Premier League season commences. The England international has appeared in only 18 of 55 matches at club level this season as a consequence two thigh injuries, a calf strain and the hip problem. His fitness record prompted the Liverpool manager to admit recently that a transfer priority for this summer is a proven goalscorer who can perform “at the top level every week”.


