http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/12/liverpool-martin-skrtel-contract

Liverpool are ready for talks with Martin Skrtel over a new contract


Liverpool are to open talks over a new contract for Martin Skrtel as the defender enters the final 18 months of his deal.
 
Skrtel has enjoyed an impressive renaissance under Brendan Rodgers after having lost his place and been close to leaving during the manager’s first season. The 30-year-old is now regarded as Liverpool’s first-choice central defender, with the £20m summer signing Dejan Lovren yet to establish himself.
 
Liverpool have been criticised over their handling of talks with Steven Gerrard, who said he would have signed an extension to his contract had such a deal been available last summer rather than in November. They have therefore moved quicker on deals for other players. Raheem Sterling is close to signing a new contract, and negotiations have also started about an extension for Jordan Henderson.
 
Skrtel, a former Zenit St Petersburg defender, marked his seven-year anniversary as a Liverpool player at the weekend and wrote on his website: “It is a great honour for me to play seven years for Liverpool. We’ve had some great moments together and I am really happy I am part of this all. Liverpool are now in my heart.”
 
Liverpool have not received any inquiries for Mario Balotelli, despite reports of several European clubs being interested in the Italian forward. The Juventus coach, Massimiliano Allegri, who worked with Balotelli at Milan, was said to be keen on a reunion with a striker who has struggled at Anfield since his £16m summer move from the San Siro.
 
Allegri told the Italian broadcaster RAI on Monday: “I think this is a made-up story. Balotelli has done very well with me but he belongs to Liverpool and he is not a player that can arrive at Juventus.”
 
The player’s agent, Mino Raiola, also claimed the 24-year-old was still adjusting to life at Liverpool and would not be leaving Merseyside this month. “Mario has been out for almost 10 weeks with an injury and you cannot judge him until he is 100% fit,” Raiola said. “It’s not easy to go abroad and adapt quickly to a new team. Mario has gone to the best league in the world. Now he is not doing well at Liverpool for different reasons, but Mario is calm and he is working to return to be in top condition. I do not regret this transfer and Mario’s departure from Milan.”
 
One player who has left Liverpool is Oussama Assaidi, in a £4.7m move to Al-Ahli of Dubai. The 26-year-old had his season-long loan deal with Stoke City terminated this month. The Morocco international has made only six starts under Rodgers since signing for £2.4m from Heerenveen in 2012.
 
The Spanish forward Suso, who has made 21 appearances for Liverpool since joining the club in 2010, has undergone a medical with Milan before a proposed free transfer. He is out of contract in the summer and is expected to sign a four-year deal with Milan starting from 1 July.


