http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/jan/27/chelsea-liverpool-five-taking-points-martin-skrtel

Chelsea 1-0 Liverpool: five talking points from a fiery Stamford Bridge | David Hytner

1) Costa faces trouble over Can challenge 
Diego Costa has to hope that Michael Oliver had a view of the flashpoint in the 12th minute and chose to take no action. But it felt like wishful thinking. Had Oliver seen what Costa did when he brought his studs down on Emre Can’s ankle, as the Liverpool player lay prone, the referee would surely have reached for a card and it might well have been red. The Football Association could consider retrospective punishment against Costa. It was not an isolated incident. Early in the second half, Costa came down again with his studs, this time on to Martin Skrtel’s foot. It was hard to tell whether it was accidental. A suspension for Costa would be a bitter pill for Chelsea. They face Manchester City on Saturday.
 2) Referee endures a fiery night to forget  
Never mind the constant struggle to keep an eye on Costa and interpret whether he was crossing the line (and we are not only talking about the Chelsea striker’s apparent stamps), Oliver made a series of baffling decisions, none more so than when he ruled that Skrtel’s reckless hack at Costa did not constitute a penalty. Liverpool might have felt that karma was at work for Costa. Oliver booked Jordan Henderson for the slightest of brushes on Eden Hazard and chose not to send him off for a handball. He rightly showed Lucas the yellow card for a cynical chop on Oscar but he spared him a second for a trip on Hazard, which preceded Branislav Ivanovic’s goal. In the end, the cards felt as though they were coming like confetti. Oliver’s head span.
 3) Spite and fury hold sway between great rivals 
There was a humorous moment at half-time when Dave Beasant walked around the pitch and, after receiving applause from three sides, he got to the Liverpool fans. “Who the fucking hell are you?”, they inquired, of the former Chelsea goalkeeper who had, apparently, saved quite an important penalty against them once upon a time when wearing Wimbledon colours. Beasant roared with laughter. It was a rare moment when the hostility ebbed. Mourinho had asked the Chelsea support to refrain from abusive chants about Steven Gerrard; the first one was heard before the kick-off. The Liverpool fans made their feeling plain about Costa; Mourinho regularly got involved; the benches clashed. No quarter was asked.
 4) Mourinho adds to the fireworks 
Mourinho provided one of the most prominent sideshows and, like many of the protagonists, there were moments when he appeared to be close to the edge, most notably after the hour, when he raged at the fourth official before turning his fire on the Liverpool assistant, Colin Pascoe. Brendan Rodgers stepped in and he seemed to lever Mourinho away. The Chelsea manager had been embroiled in the flashpoint after Costa’s stamp on Can and his raging at the officials knew few boundaries. He was horrified when Oliver did not award the penalty for Skrtel’s challenge on Costa – for a few seconds, he assumed it had been given – while he was arguing so strongly with the fourth official over Lucas’ let-off over a second yellow card he did not see Ivanovic’s goal. At full-time, Mourinho punched the air before bombing off down the tunnel..
 5) Liverpool fall agonisingly short 
Liverpool have hauled themselves from the depths of their Black November and they arrived at Stamford Bridge having pieced together an encouraging run of form – only one defeat (at Manchester United) in 16 matches. It was possible to see they lacked a stand-out victory during the sequence; a result to energise the campaign. They had beaten teams they ought to be beating, such as Swansea and Stoke at home, plus a clutch of teams in relegation trouble but they lacked the headline scalp. This was the chance to take it but they were left with regrets. Philippe Coutinho was eye-catching and there was support for him but the travelling support were left to lament the lack of the decisive moment. They could not believe how Henderson missed his free header in extra time.


