http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/14/atletico-madrid-chelsea-antoine-griezmann-koke

Atlético Madrid move to deter Chelsea interest in Antoine Griezmann and Koke


Atlético Madrid are attempting to ward off Chelsea’s interest in their forwards Antoine Griezmann and Koke by raising the buy-out clauses to nearer £100m in the new contracts to be offered to both players this summer.
 
The Spanish champions are seeking to renegotiate with the much-coveted pair, whose deals include buy-out clauses set at around £43m.
 
Chelsea’s interest in Koke has been long-standing – the playmaker is apparently happy in Spain – and their hopes of securing Griezmann appeared to be strengthened after it emerged that the agent Jorge Mendes is acting in an advisory capacity for the France international.
  
 Related: Football transfer rumours: Jérémy Ménez to join Liverpool? 
   
The Portuguese enjoys a close relationship with the Premier League winners and counts José Mourinho and Diego Costa among his portfolio of clients. Griezmann has had a stellar first season at Atlético following last summer’s £23m move from Real Sociedad on a six-year contract, with the hierarchy at the Vicente Calderón having clearly underestimated the impact the forward would have given the relatively low buy-out clause inserted into that deal.
 
He has scored 25 goals this term, and is the joint-third top scorer in La Liga with 22, filling the goalscoring void left by Costa and David Villa, and has demonstrated an ability to play in any position across the front three. That versatility would appeal to Mourinho, who has tracked the player’s progress over the past two years and may exploit the clause in the 24-year-old’s contract.
 
Griezmann, despite having thrived under Diego Simeone in the Spanish capital, is believed to be open to the prospect of moving to England and intent upon gauging the extent of Chelsea’s interest.
 
Mourinho and the club’s recruitment department, headed by the technical director Michael Emenalo, are hoping to conduct their business as efficiently as last summer and have put together an extensive list of targets.
 
Players such as Pedro Rodríguez at Barcelona, Atlético’s Toby Alderweireld – who is on loan at Southampton and another of Mendes’s clients – Morgan Schneiderlin at Southampton, QPR’s Rob Green, Stoke City’s Asmir Begovic and the Getafe goalkeeper Vicente Guaita have come under consideration.
 
There will be sales from the current squad with Petr Cech, Filipe Luís and Didier Drogba – who is out of contract and interesting clubs in Major League Soccer – expected to depart. Arsenal are interested in Cech, though Mourinho has indicated he would prefer either to retain the goalkeeper or sell him to an overseas club if he is intent upon leaving. Ultimately, the hierarchy are likely to decide on the 32-year-old’s future in conjunction with the player himself.
 
Chelsea have announced the signing of the Brazilian midfielder Nathan from Atlético Paranaense. The 19-year-old will be loaned out overseas as he does not qualify for a work permit.


