http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/apr/17/golden-goal-glenn-hoddle-tottenham-watford

Golden goal: Glenn Hoddle for Tottenham v Watford (1983) | Simon Burnton


Some strange things go through Glenn Hoddle’s head sometimes. This won’t come as news to many, or at least those who remember the ignominious conclusion to his spell as manager of England, which was prompted by him telephoning a newspaper journalist in order to (after some football-related perambulation) insult the disabled. He claimed that he was misquoted, but does not dispute that his views on reincarnation are, well, unconventional.
 
The gist of his argument was that those born with disabilities are being punished for sins committed in a former life (“The karma is working from another lifetime. I have nothing to hide about that. It is not only people with disabilities. What you sow, you have to reap”). The comments, and the ensuing controversy, eventually forced the FA to sack him for “a serious error of judgment”. “The past few days have been painful for everyone involved,” said David Davies, their chief executive at the time, “but it is nothing compared to any offence that may have been caused to disabled people in our community and our country.”
  
 Related: Golden goal: Des Walker for Nottingham Forest v Luton (1992) | Nick Miller 
   
If those are Hoddle’s beliefs about the disabled, precisely how wonderful must he think his own previous incarnation was in order for him to have been born into a stable family in a time of unprecedented peace in one of the world’s great cities and grow into a lithe, beautiful, intelligent, wealthy and extraordinarily talented 6ft-tall footballing hero? The chant Tottenham’s fans used to sing to Hoddle was “Born is the King of White Hart Lane”, a lapse into Christian imagery (to the tune of The First Noel) that the player seemed to take to heart; more even than his damning of the disabled, the most galling aspect of Hoddle’s personal theology is the self-deification inherent in it.
 
His good fortune started at birth and continued more or less unabated. Hoddle was not one of those players whose arrival at a major club involved endless childhood hours being driven from one trial game to another, or a laborious march up the footballing pyramid from a small lower-league side. No, young Glenn just happened to be playing in a game for a youth side in Harlow, Essex when the Tottenham striker Martin Chivers just happened to pop by, and that was that.
 
But if it was his unconventional thought processes that were to be Hoddle’s downfall as an international manager, they had first established his greatness. For in football, what makes the truly gifted stand out is not just their ability to convince a small spherical object to do their bidding, but their ability to see things to do with it that others cannot.
 
Watch this clip and pause it after two seconds, when the ball is headed clear of Tottenham’s penalty area and Hoddle runs on to it, midway through his own half. While it is paused consider, based on all the football you have ever seen up to this point, how the move might proceed from here. In all likelihood he will pass the ball to the man on his right and surge forward to collect the return pass, although there is also someone sprinting to his left – and his opponents, Oxford, have no defensive cover on that flank, the full-back Dave Langan having delivered the cross that has just been cleared (Oxford, it might be helpful to learn, are 2-1 down in the game’s closing moments) – and a striker ahead of him whom he may attempt to play through. Now, with the clip still paused, consider this: within five seconds, no one else having touched the ball or even come close to it, Hoddle will be 10 yards clear of the defence and about to dummy the goalkeeper and score what would be his last ever goal for Spurs.
 
Today there would be a dozen cameras focused on him as he made his way forward. Then there was just one, on the halfway line, so we will never know what Hoddle did with his eyes to encourage Oxford’s two centre-backs – playing an inadvisably high line in an attempt to catch Clive Allen offside – to become so statue-like as he waltzed past them. We can just watch, jaws gently agape, and recall the words of Mike in Swingers: “That was so fucking money. That was like the Jedi mind shit.”
 
Hoddle’s goal against Watford in 1983, perhaps his most famous, benefits from a similar freeze-framing approach. Stop it first after five seconds, with Garry Brooke’s pass approaching Hoddle, who stands facing away from goal, 15 yards from it, with a defender – Watford’s Jan Lohman – at his back. Based on all the football you have ever seen, you will expect Hoddle to control the ball and then either a) lay it back so someone else can shoot from the edge of the area; b) spin and shoot with his left foot; or c) engage on some sort of mazy dribbling before falling over a defender’s leg.
         Glenn Hoddle’s chip against Watford in 1983.    
But no! Instead he executes a brilliant turn, leaving the defender nonplussed and creating for himself a decent shooting opportunity. “He did not so much pop out of Lohman’s pocket as take the trousers with him,” Jeremy Alexander wrote in the Guardian’s match report. “A sway and a drag left the marker naked.”
 
Stop again a second later, as he prepares to address the ball. At this point (all figures approximate) 75% of forwards would shoot low towards the far post; 15% would, knowing that the goalkeeper must be aware of that and preparing for it, aim at the near post; 5% would thrash the ball low across the area and hope that someone else could get on the end of it, and 5% would just hit it as hard as they could and hope for the best. Nothing else looks remotely feasible. Steve Sherwood, in the Watford goal, shuffles slightly forward to narrow the angles and sets himself.
 
Hoddle chips the ball over Sherwood, who was 6ft 4in but, Ray Wilkins once said, “always looked about seven feet tall”, the ball clearing him so emphatically that he couldn’t have reached it had another him been sitting on his own shoulders, and dropping precipitously to finally caress the side-netting inside the far post, a little under waist height.
 
There is something special about the chip that puts it in both literal and metaphorical senses above all other types of goal attempts. It is, perhaps, the amount of time the ball spends in the air on its way in, at its best giving fans a few seconds to savour the normally fleeting feeling of impending celebration, and allowing the goalkeeper, already beaten, to further humiliate himself by optimistically sprinting backwards or even more optimistically attempting actually to fly.
 
But even among chips there is a hierarchy, running to approximately three varieties. There’s the common-or-garden, meat-and-potato chip, which follows a goalkeeper coming off his line to improve his odds while a forward, who has plenty of time to assess the situation, bears down upon him (Karel Poborsky’s is a classic of the type). Then there’s the lesser-spotted chip, infinitely more beautiful, the one nobody expects until the ball suddenly starts floating, the one where the goalkeeper appears well positioned, but is humiliated all the same. And then Dejan Savicevic’s goal against Barcelona in the 1994 European Cup final has a category of its own. Hoddle’s falls solidly into the second field.
 
“Hoddle showed how an innocuous pass can be turned into a great goal by a player of real skill,” wrote Paul Harrison in the Times. “Until then the power, pace and passion of Watford’s players had run roughshod over Spurs’ greater skills,” wrote Tony Pawson in the Observer. “But that was stimulus enough for Tottenham to torture them to destruction with the goals flowing free in the final minutes.” The Hornets, 1-0 up until Hoddle’s intervention, 10 minutes into the second half, needed a late penalty to make the final score 2-3.
  
 Related: Golden goal: Fabio Grosso for Italy v Germany (2006) | Nick Miller 
   
“I hadn’t actually been playing that well up to that moment and I was thinking I had better do something because we were a goal down,” Hoddle later said. “The ball came in to me and I flicked it away from the defender with my right foot. I remember thinking that Steve Sherwood was pretty tall, so I would have to get some height on the shot, so I chipped it. It was sort of like a wedge shot. I meant it, but I didn’t think it would come off that well.”
 
Endless repetition in Match of the Day title sequences burned this goal into the memory of every English football fan of a certain age but Hoddle himself ranks this as his second-best, behind a volley scored against Manchester United in 1979. His technique here is heartbreakingly beautiful – his body shape at the point of impact, high off the ground, is unimprovable – but at the risk of slipping into pervy detail, the way Hoddle’s left foot flicked under his right calf during his follow-through from right-footed power-drives (see also this free-kick against Wimbledon, which sealed his side’s place in a 1987 FA Cup semi-final, also against Watford) is what really sets him apart. After enjoying that goal against United, watch a couple of other celebrated right-foot volleys (Van Basten for Holland against the USSR, say, or Shearer for Newcastle against Everton) and it is hard not to think: “Yeah, nice goal, but the follow-through’s a bit prosaic, isn’t it?”
 
Watford looked on the bright side: “It can’t be a bad thing if we make the likes of Glenn Hoddle play,” said their manager, Graham Taylor. “Tortured to destruction” they may have been but their morale can’t have been that badly crushed: four days later they played Kaiserslautern in the Uefa Cup and, 3-1 down from the away leg, won 3-0. In the end this wasn’t even Sherwood’s most painful Spurs-related memory: the man a tabloid newspaper once dubbed Stevie Blunder later controversially missing that 1987 semi-final after a finger injury (he said he had recovered, but Taylor nevertheless, amid a goalkeeping injury crisis, picked the chief executive’s son instead and Watford lost 4-1).
 
Though Hoddle now works predominantly as a pundit, he was best when he could let his feet do the talking. For those too young or too forgetful to remember him as a player his greatest moments, unlike his spiritual beliefs, will always be worth reviving.


