http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/06/brendan-rodgers-liverpool-manchester-city

Brendan Rodgers dismisses Manchester City link and puts Liverpool first


Brendan Rodgers has removed his name from the list of candidates who could potentially replace Manuel Pellegrini this summer by declaring his priority is to build a new trophy-winning dynasty at Liverpool.
 
Pellegrini’s position is under scrutiny at Manchester City due to the champions’ lack of progress in the Premier League and Champions League, with last Sunday’s 2-1 loss at Liverpool undermining their hopes of retaining the title.
 
While Pep Guardiola would be first choice for any leading club should he decide to leave Bayern Munich, he has ruled out departing the Allianz Arena this summer. Rodgers also fits the criteria of an attacking, possession-minded coach that City’s chief executive Ferran Soriano and director of football Txiki Begiristain want at the Etihad Stadium.
  
 Related: Blackburn out to ruffle Liverpool feathers after surviving fowl times | Paul Doyle 
   
The Liverpool manager has been touted as a possible replacement for Pellegrini since City’s defeat at Anfield, and has been courted by the reigning Premier League champions previously, but moved quickly to quash talk of any possible move. Liverpool host Blackburn Rovers in their FA Cup quarter-final on Sunday having hauled themselves back into contention for a Champions League place and Rodgers believes he is close to delivering long-term success to Anfield.
 
“That doesn’t distract me,” he said of the City link. “I chose to come to Liverpool because I hoped I could be here for many years. The speculation is just the nature of football I think. I remember earlier this season playing Ludogorets away and as I walked off I saw a banner that said ‘Rodgers Out’ so I never get too carried away. I always have that in the back of my mind, although it was near the dug-out and wasn’t someone with the away supporters. As long as the people here at Liverpool, the board, the supporters and the players are ultimately happy with the work, I would love to be here for as long as I can.
 
“We are working into an exciting phase after this season where hopefully, if we get young players tied to contracts, that will allow us to win trophies with this way of working. We’re on the way there and it’s about making the steps to challenge for major honours consistently and to win them. That’s what we want to do.”
 
Rodgers is under contract at Liverpool until 2018 having signed a new four-year deal last May but has never stayed in any coaching position longer than three years. Next season will be his fourth as Liverpool manager but he insists Anfield represents “a destination” rather than a staging post in his career.
 
He explained: “If I’m here after this year, and touch wood I go into the fourth year, this will be the longest period in any role I’ve been in football. After three years I’ve always moved a role or a job, from youth football right the way through. But I’ve always seen Liverpool as a club that, all being well, was going to be a destination for me not somewhere that was part of the journey.
  
 Related: Gabriel Agbonlahor reignites a curious career to give Aston Villa hope| Stuart James 
   
“I really wanted to be here, to follow some incredible managers with a support that is unrivalled, and to have success knowing that I was young enough to create and build something. That is why I came here. I know I need to justify that by working well and winning trophies and hopefully that is the next step.
 
“For me there is great excitement at Liverpool with the young players coming through, with the development of the stadium, more supporters coming in because of that, and travelling the world promoting the club.”
 
Asked if he could envisage himself working for another English club, Rodgers replied: “Where do you go from Liverpool, one of the biggest clubs in the world? It is all hypothetical, Liverpool might sack me and then I need to be in work, but I’ve signed a deal here and hopefully I’ll earn enough time to warrant another one.”


