http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/01/jose-mourinho-chelsea-new-generation-tottenham-mauricio-pochettino

José Mourinho: it’s the first cup for new Chelsea team, a new generation


José Mourinho hailed Chelsea’s success in the Capital One Cup final as hugely significant for “a new generation of players” seeking to dominate the domestic game as the manager claimed the first silverware of his second spell in charge.
 
He paid tribute to those fringe players in his squad who had missed out on selection as his side overcame Tottenham Hotspur, and revealed the suspended Nemanja Matic had conducted the final team talk in the dressing room ahead of kick-off. This was Mourinho’s first trophy since the Spanish Super Cup of August 2012, the longest spell he has gone without a prize in his managerial career.
 
“My career had gone in a different direction, with two seasons without a trophy, and it looked like I was 20 years without a trophy, even to myself,” he said, putting that short drought in some context. “But to have that feeling that two years is a long time, that’s a good problem. For me it’s important to feel I’m still a kid, even at 52 years of age: it’s important that, before the game, I had the same feelings as ahead of my first final all those years ago, and to feel the same happiness after the victory.
  
 Related: Chelsea 2-0 Tottenham Hotspur | Capital One Cup final match report 
   
“I know I have a team to build, which is what we’re doing, but it’s difficult for me to live without titles, even with all the work to be stable that we are doing. I need to feed myself with titles.
 
“This is important for me and the boys. For the club it’s one more cup, but it’s the first one of a new team. You have Petr Cech, John Terry, Didier Drogba and, after that, everybody belongs to a new generation of players. So, as a team, very important.”
 
Mourinho paid tribute to Kurt Zouma, a young centre-half employed in midfield in the absence of Matic who he described as a modern-day “Marcel Desailly”, and thanked Thibaut Courtois, Filipe Luís, Oscar, Anders Christensen and even the departed Andre Schürrle, Mohamed Salah and Mark Schwarzer for their contribution in the earlier rounds. Matic, who joined the squad on the pitch at the final whistle, was offered his own opportunity to make an impact. “The boy was sad and he made the speech in the dressing room expressing his pain not to be playing, and asking his team-mates to express the pleasure he couldn’t have to play this final,” Mourinho said. “For me, the pain was to see a player [Burnley’s Ashley Barnes] play yesterday and Matic not playing today.”
 
Manchester City’s defeat at Liverpool earlier in the day had ensured Chelsea retained their five-point advantage at the top of the table and now boast a game in hand against the champions. Mourinho had attempted to shield his players from news of events at Anfield, only for his assistant first-team coach, Silvino Louro, to let the cat out of the bag on the team coach.
  
 Related: Chelsea v Tottenham Hotspur: Capital One Cup final – in pictures 
   
“The perfect day was to win the final but I had prepared the players for an impossible mission, which was not knowing the City result, forgetting City,” he said.
 
“I didn’t want the television in the hotel or on the bus. I told them I didn’t want any kind of manifestation or disappointment if City scored in the last minute, or if Liverpool won. I wanted complete silence.
 
“We were being successful on that, but one member of my staff jumped up in the bus. Silvino. I wanted to kill the guyfor breaking the rules! The league is in the hands of everyone still: we have difficult matches still to play, as do City and [Manchester] United are still in the title race, too. I predicted Liverpool because Brendan [Rodgers] is building a fantastic team. But, today, I am happy because I saw a team that was comfortable, a team that found a solution to keep the stability after the ‘criminal’ tackle that Matic did that got him suspended. A team that was not very mature, with a lot of young people, adapted very well.”
 
There was praise, too, for Tottenham. “A team who will go on and win trophies,” said Mourinho, and for Mauricio Pochettino who was philosophical in defeat and confident his young team will learn from it. “I’m disappointed for us, but proud of my players,” he said.
 
Spurs’ squad at Wembley had an average age of 23.5 and Pochettino added: “We respected our style and philosophy. We have to take a lot of positives. We are a very young squad and my players will play a lot of finals in the next few years. We need to improve and learn, and we will do that from this final. This group has a very bright future.”


