http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/19/chelsea-thibaut-courtois-thumb-injury-liverpool

Chelsea’s Thibaut Courtois to return from thumb injury at Liverpool


José Mourinho may hand Thibaut Courtois a first appearance in the Capital One Cup in ’s semi-final first leg at Liverpool after the Belgian trained over the weekend without suffering pain from a thumb injury.
 
Courtois, outstanding this term since finally ending a three-year stint on loan at Atlético Madrid, fractured the thumb in the startling 5-3 defeat at Tottenham Hotspur on New Year’s Day. Petr Cech, having been restored to the starting XI. The Czech international has subsequently been excellent in has kept three successive clean sheets as Chelsea recovered their poise in league and FA Cup since that loss at White Hart Lane.
 
Though Cech has started the side’s three Capital One Cup ties to date and has conceded only four in his 10 appearances this season in all competitions,, Courtois had always expected to feature in the semi-final against Liverpool, only for his participation to have been complicated by the injury. Mourinho and the medical staff are confident it has healed and could immediately restore Courtois, with Cech likely to feature in Saturday’s FA Cup fourth-round tie against Bradford City of League One.
 
The Chelsea manager maintains he is blessed with two of the world’s best goalkeepers, allowing him to rest Courtois until he had completely recovered from the fracture. “I have the two best in the league,” said Mourinho in the build-up to Saturday’s game at Swansea. “Yes, Courtois is fit but not 100%, but how many players are during the season? There is always pain here and there, a swollen ankle or something like that. Lots of keepers have strapping.”
           Liverpool relishing Chelsea challenge for Capital One Cup, says Brendan Rodgers    
Chelsea have already won in the Premier League at Anfield this season, triumphing 2-1 back in November, though they travel to Merseyside braced for an awkward first leg with Liverpool having won six of their last eight games. “It’s going to be a tough place to go,” said John Terry. “Sturridge is close to coming back, Sterling looks like he’s back as well and they proved, when we went up there in the league, that it’s a tough game.
 
“You have to forget form and where they are, and everything else. That kind of goes out of the window. It’s Chelsea against Liverpool. It’s going to be tough over the two legs and I just hope we are strong enough. I think the performance at Swansea has set the tone for the game on Tuesday and then the big one [against Manchester City on 31 January]. You cannot prioritise and say one is bigger than the other, but it’s a big week or two.”
 
AS Roma have returned to Chelsea seeking to secure the under-used Egypt winger Mohamed Salah on an 18-month loan with an option to make the move permanent for £12m, though the forward’s departure would most likely force the Premier League leaders back into the market this month. The Italian club are offering Salah a four-year contract worth around £50,000-a-week with the player having started only six Premier League games since moving from Basel a year ago.


