http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/26/arsenal-chelsea-player-ratings-john-terry

Arsenal 0-0 Chelsea: player ratings

Arsenal 
David Ospina 5/10
 
A quiet afternoon for the Colombian – except for the moment when he took out Oscar and should have cost his team a penalty.
 
Héctor Bellerín 7/10
 
A confident display from the Spanish full-back. Restricted Eden Hazard’s threat from wide and got forward to support the hosts’ attacking play.
 
Per Mertesacker 6/10
 
Did not have much to do given Chelsea’s extremely cautious approach. Should have done better with second-half scoring opportunity.
 
Laurent Koscielny 7/10
 
Also had little to do defensively. Pushed forward and impressed doing so, especially when setting up Santi Cazorla for a shot on goal.
 
Nacho Monreal 7/10
 
The left-back got forward when he could and delivered a couple of teasing crosses during the first half. Competent enough defensively.
 
Francis Coquelin 6/10
 
A solid enough display from the Frenchman, who occasionally could be seen directing his team’s play from deep midfield.
 
Santi Cazorla 7/10
 
Looked to drive forward from centre midfield and linked well with those ahead of him. Should have done better with a second-half chance.
 
Aaron Ramsey 6/10
 
Provided some lovely moments, most notably his first-time control and lay off to Mesut Özil, but generally struggled to impose himself from wide.
 
Mesut Özil 7/10
 
A consistently energetic display from the usually languid forward. Should have done better with a chance right at the death.
 
Alexis Sánchez 6/10
 
Started in typically aggressive and dynamic style from wide left before fading as an attacking threat as the contest went on.
 
Oliver Giroud 5/10
 
French forward started positively but failed overall to make an impact against Chelsea’s well‑drilled centre-backs, especially John Terry.
 
Substitutes
 
Welbeck (for Coquelin, 76); Walcott (for Giroud, 84)
 
Not used Szczesny, Debuchy, Gibbs, Wilshere, Flamini
 Chelsea 
Thibaut Courtois 6/10
 
Alert to Özil’s first‑half shot and a deflected effort from Danny Welbeck late on. In between flapped badly when clearing a second-half free-kick.
 
Branislav Ivanovic 7/10
 
Typically aggressive and hard-working show from the right-back. Got forward when possible, also booked for a studs up tackle on Alexis Sánchez.
 
Gary Cahill 7/10
 
Ably supported his captain John Terry at the centre of Chelsea’s defence. Rarely flustered. Blocked first-half shot from Cazorla with his arm.
 
John Terry 9/10
 
A brilliant display by the 34-year-old. Cleared and blocked everything that came his way. May wake to find Olivier Giroud still in his back pocket.
 
César Azpilicueta 8/10
 
A highly impressive performance by the Spaniard. Defended superbly and pressed forward when the opportunity presented itself.
 
Cesc Fàbregas 6/10
 
Received a mixed reception on his return to the Emirates and had a mixed game – attacked well in spells but was also booked for diving.
 
Nemanja Matic 6/10
 
As ever, sat in front of the Chelsea defence and did what was required to keep the opposition at bay. Did not get forward but did not need to.
 
Ramires 6/10
 
Was positioned on the right of Chelsea’s attack and put in a typically energetic display. Squandered his team’s best chance in the first half.
 
Oscar 6/10
 
Most notable moment as striker in unconventional lineup was being wiped out by David Ospina after clearing bar. Replaced at half-time.
 
Willian 7/10
 
An elusive presence in a central attacking role. Played first-half pass to Ramires that the midfielder should have converted into game’s opening goal.
 
Eden Hazard 5/10
 
Perhaps the Belgian’s quietest display of the season. Bar a threatening pass to Ramires after 21 minutes, did little of note from wide left.
 
Substitutes
 
Drogba (for Oscar, h-t); Zouma (for Fàbregas, 90); Cuadrado (for Willian, 90)
 
Not used Cech, Filipe Luís, Mikel, Loftus-Cheek
 
Referee
 
Michael Oliver


