http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/13/liverpool-newcastle-united-premier-league-match-report

Liverpool 2-0 Newcastle United | Premier League match report


Whatever Raheem Sterling is smoking, and it is quite a lot judging by pictures that have emerged of the Liverpool forward in recent days, it proved too much for Newcastle United to stomach as their malaise deepened at Anfield. The Champions League may not be a pipe-dream for Brendan Rodgers’ team after all.
 
Liverpool closed to within four points of fourth-placed Manchester City with an ultimately comfortable win courtesy of Sterling’s seventh league goal of the campaign and Joe Allen’s first. Footage of Sterling seeming to pass out having apparently taken nitrous oxide were a distraction to Rodgers in his post-match press conference but not his team’s revived pursuit of Champions League qualification.
 
Liverpool were often careless in possession but always dangerous in attack and Sterling should really have finished on a hat-trick.
 
John Carver witnessed signs of much-needed improvement from the visitors in a purposeful spell either side of the interval but it was not enough to prevent a fifth successive Premier League defeat. Newcastle’s defending continues to invite trouble, with Ryan Taylor, Gabriel Obertan and Mike Williamson found wanting for Liverpool’s two goals, and they will be without Moussa Sissoko for the next two games after the influential midfielder was sent off for a dreadful foul on Lucas Leiva.
 
Sissoko was dismissed for a second bookable offence by the referee, Lee Mason, who also denied Newcastle a clear penalty when Dejan Lovren impeded Ayoze Pérez in the first half, but the shin-high lunge was worthy of a straight red.
 
Newcastle’s captain headed for the tunnel before Mason had pulled out the card.
 
“The sending-off could have been a straight red,” admitted Carver. “I will be honest, I have said that to Moussa. I am quite straight and I won’t defend anyone if it is indefensible.
 
“He got a two-match ban so we got away with one there but the pleasing thing is we have responded from that dreadful performance against Sunderland. We have got six cup finals because we need to get points.”
 
Rodgers had filed his programme notes before Manchester City’s defeat at Old Trafford offered unexpected opportunity to Liverpool. In them he cautioned that “the teams above us are not dropping points” but he was more emboldened about a Champions League place after this result. Liverpool were quick to establish a foothold over a brittle Newcastle. The performances of Philippe Coutinho and Sterling, forming a three-pronged attack alongside Jordon Ibe, ensured the injured Daniel Sturridge was not missed.
 
Carver had pledged a reaction from Newcastle following their lame defeat in the Tyne-Wear derby last weekend and initially the “hurt” visitors delivered. Yet it underlined Newcastle’s weakness that they conceded when under pressure for the first time. The breakthrough was a moment to savour for the scrutinised Sterling.
 
Jordan Henderson instigated the ninth-minute goal with a crossfield pass that his England international colleague trapped with an exquisite first touch on the left of the visitors’ penalty area. Sterling stepped inside one weak challenge from Taylor, a second from Obertan and swept a fine right-footed finish beyond Tim Krul. It was the 20-year-old’s first goal since inviting criticism with his admission to the BBC that he had rejected a £100,000-a-week contract offer from Liverpool. Any concerns Sterling might have had over the Kop’s reaction were misplaced although the home supporters were quick to express an unflattering opinion of the player’s agent, Aidy Ward.
 
Liverpool, wearing black armbands before the 26th anniversary of the Hillsborough disaster on Wednesday, appeared on course for a comfortable victory in the immediate aftermath of Sterling’s goal as Newcastle’s resistance evaporated.
 
But the home side’s dominance proved deceptive. Having spent most of the first half justifying recent accusations of a lack of quality and fight, the visitors ended it in the ascendancy and rightly enraged by Mason’s refusal to award a penalty when Lovren fouled Pérez inside the Liverpool area.
           Liverpool 2-0 Newcastle United: John Carver bemoans penalty decision    
Carver, who continued his protest as the officials left the field at half-time, said: “The game hinged on a huge decision. I don’t want to be seen to be a moaner but it is a fact we don’t get big decisions for whatever reason. I have spoken to the referee but it doesn’t help me. Contracts, jobs and livelihoods rest on decisions like that.”
 
Pérez almost levelled with a flying header from Daryl Janmaat’s cross, only for Simon Mignolet to produce a fine save. Sterling should have scored his second when Taylor completely missed Henderson’s cross from the right and allowed the ball to reach the winger standing six yards in front of goal.
 
Somehow Sterling side-footed his effort horribly wide. His blushes were spared by Allen of all people.
 
Newcastle dealt comfortably with a Henderson corner from the right but not with the return ball back into their box by Emre Can. Can’s cross bounced off Williamson and, before the Newcastle central defender could react, Allen dispatched a snap-shot past Krul from close range.
 
The Wales international became the 18th different player to score for Liverpool this season with his first of the campaign, equalling a club record.


