http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/01/tottenham-europa-league-mauricio-pochettino

Tottenham would prioritise Premier League above Europa, says Pochettino


Mauricio Pochettino has suggested Tottenham Hotspur would prioritise the Premier League over the Europa League next season. The Tottenham manager has claimed previously that Europe’s second-tier competition is a hindrance for English clubs and says qualifying for the Champions League is his dream.
 
Tottenham played 10 games in the Europa League this season, losing to Fiorentina in the last 32, and there is a feeling the competition’s demands are one of the reasons they are seven points off the top four – in sixth place with four matches left. Pochettino’s side will qualify for it again if they finish in the league’s top seven – unless they finish seventh and Aston Villa beat Arsenal in the FA Cup final.
 
“Maybe if we reach the Europa League I think we need to be focused on the Premier League and try to reach the top four, that is important,” Pochettino said. “Maybe we prioritise the Premier League. ”Although there is a Champions League place on offer for the winners of the Europa League, Pochettino did not necessarily agree that represents an easier route in than finishing in the Premier League’s top four. “I don’t know,” the Argentinian said. “It is not easy, it is difficult to guess about that, but I always believe that if we are clever and take the right decision we need to believe we can reach the top four next season. We need to be ambitious.”
 
Pochettino went on to say that he has the final say over transfers at White Hart Lane. Tottenham have a director of football, Franco Baldini, and a head of recruitment, Paul Mitchell, but Pochettino said that new signings will ultimately be his responsibility.
 
“The final decision?” he said. “I think it should be me, no? Always the manager and the coaching staff need to deal with the player, in the changing room or on the pitch. And if the feeling is not good between us it is difficult to achieve something. It is very important that the players who stay here and the players who maybe we bring in that I agree and it is my decision. Because if not, if you bring some players here and I don’t know these players, maybe it is not that they are bad players but it is important the feeling the player has with the coaching staff or the manager.”
 
Pochettino insisted that he would put up a fight to keep hold of Tottenham’s best players this summer. Manchester United have identified Hugo Lloris as a potential replacement for David de Gea, who is a target for Real Madrid, and it could be difficult for Tottenham to convince the French goalkeeper to stay in the likely event that they fail to qualify for the Champions League. Paris Saint-Germain have also been linked with Lloris, who signed a five-year contract last May.
 
“In football it is difficult,” Pochettino said. “Also if you sign the contract you never have the guarantee. I have a contract or a lot of managers have a contract and there is never guarantee. But in football you never know. But it is true if I want some player to stay with us I fight a lot.”
 
Pochettino was tight-lipped when he was asked about United’s interest in Lloris “I do not have any comment,” he said. “I do not want to speak about rumours, about Hugo or other players. We are focused and we try to finish the season as best as possible. That rumour is impossible to stop.”
 
Pochettino would also not be drawn on a potential move for the Southampton midfielder, Morgan Schneiderlin. “Another rumour,” he said.


