http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/22/robbie-fowler-emile-heskey-liverpool

Robbie Fowler salute to Emile Heskey as Liverpool old boys stir the memories


They won a treble together in 2001, still play together occasionally and will be at Anfield together when Liverpool host Bolton Wanderers in the FA Cup on Saturday, although Emile Heskey’s involvement on the pitch represents a shock to Robbie Fowler. “Emile’s signed for Bolton? When did that happen?” Christmas Eve. “I didn’t even know,” says Fowler, dissolving into laughter.
 
The former prolific Liverpool striker has excuses for failing to keep abreast of his ex-team-mate’s movement. He has spent the past few weeks in Australia in his role as an official ambassador for Liverpool, has been preparing to launch a new education and football academy on Merseyside and also remains on the look-out for a managerial break in England. Retirement never sat easily with Fowler, who only ended his playing career three years ago at the age of 36, and his amusement is not at Heskey’s desire to compete in the Championship at 37.
 
“I’ll be honest with you, I’m surprised Bolton have signed him,” says Fowler. “I don’t mean that in a bad way, I love Emile, but I played in a charity game in Singapore with him not long ago and if any of the Bolton scouts had seen him then they would have left the contract at home. We won but Emile got caught offside about 20 times. Seriously, though, I’m pleased for him. Obviously he wants to carry on for as long as he can, like myself, and good luck to him. He deserves it. He’s been a fantastic player.”
 
Getting another chance in the game resonates with the former Kop idol, who was on the bench when Bolton beat Liverpool 2-0 at Anfield in the FA Cup in 1993 with goals from John McGinlay and Andy Walker. “Just being involved was brilliant but the result was a massive shock and in hindsight it was probably a good thing I never got on,” he recalls.
 
The 39-year-old is speaking at the launch of the Fowler Education and Football Academy, the realisation of an idea devised with his brother which will offer 60 local youngsters a route into the game either academically or competitively when it opens in September. Students will take the Outstanding Football and Sport Science course, which includes sport and exercise science, FA coaching qualifications, entrepreneurial skills and even a lifeguard qualification.
 
“I learned from Steve Heighway (Liverpool’s former youth academy director) how important it was to focus on education but it was only as I got older I thought about what would have happened if I had an injury that stopped me playing football,” Fowler explains. “I channelled all my energies into being a professional footballer and was lucky to be not bad and so got a YTS contract and a three-year professional deal but my schooling suffered.
 
“This academy will give kids a chance to get back into education. The criteria is anyone who wants to go into higher education. It may be perceived as being for those who are released by the clubs, and lads who have been released by Everton, Liverpool and Tranmere will be part of it, but it is open to everyone, boys and girls. Anyone can apply.
 
“I was lucky because I made it but there are a lot of sacrifices to make even before you turn professional. Some of my mates were talented footballers but never had the dedication needed. The percentage of those who do not make it is heartbreaking, we can’t all be professional footballers, but this course offers a chance to stay in football whether it’s through analysis, sports science or possibly playing again.”
 
Running the course will be one of the less fortunate ones, at least compared to Fowler. Brian McGorry was released by Liverpool as a teenager but had an education to fall back on, got a job working for the Ministry of Defence while playing non-league for Weymouth and eventually returned to the professional game when Harry Redknapp signed him for Bournemouth. “I was told by Kenny Dalglish, went home and cried,” recalls McGorry. “But I was lucky to have an education and my career went in a different route. 150 ex-professionals have ended up in prison in the last 10 years because they fall out of the game but want to keep the lifestyle.
 
“This course is not all about being a footballer. They might want to go into the football industry, do a university course in sports science and get into the game that way. The difference between how we educate kids (at football clubs) and how the Bundesliga do it is unbelievable. At Freiburg, their kids are in education for 34 hours a week. In the Premier League it is nine hours a week. Freiburg sold a player to Borussia Dortmund last year, he was 19 or 20, and he hadn’t finished his homework assignments before a first-team game so was made to do it on the coach travelling to the match.”
 
Fowler and McGorry have identified three potential sites for the academy and will be holding open days for the first intake of students in the coming months. “I honestly believe it will work,” says Fowler, who is also looking for a future within the game, specifically as a manager.
 
He admits: “It’s no secret I want to do it. I’ve been on the periphery of a few things but I think I need a chairman with a bit of cojones to give me a chance. I was player manager in Thailand (with Muangthong United) and I loved it.
 
“I know I’m not going to manage in the Premier League straightaway but I think what’s gone against me is that, because I played my whole career at the top level other than 12 games with Cardiff, I don’t really know anyone in the lower leagues. If I’d played lower league and met more people I might have had more of a chance. But I do want to do it and I’m confident I will.”
 
For more information on the Fowler Education and Football Academy, and to register for an open day, go to www.thefefa.co.uk/apply 


