http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/01/jose-mourinho-chelsea-premier-league-title-crystal-palace

José Mourinho keen to set about Chelsea’s title defence straight away


José Mourinho will allow himself five minutes to celebrate the Premier League title when it is won before turning his attentions to the task of retaining the trophy next term.
 
Chelsea, who start the weekend 13 points clear at the top, can claim their first league championship in five years by defeating Crystal Palace on Sunday. It will be Mourinho’s eighth league title from his time at Porto, Internazionale, Real Madrid and in two spells at the London club and the manager will have a replica trophy made to commemorate the achievement to add to his personal collection.
 
The real silverware will not be presented to the league winners until after their final home game, against Sunderland on 24 May, though Mourinho is unperturbed at the prospect of waiting a further three weeks even if the title is secured this weekend. “I don’t care, really,” he said. “The meaning is the important thing: the feeling, the emotion … that’s what stays with you forever.
 
“I have replicas of every cup I won, and I don’t care about the replicas. Or the medals. They’re in my houses. I have some in Portugal, some here, some in my son’s room. I really don’t care. What stays forever is the feeling, the emotion, the memory of the moment. I have clear in my head every one of these moments I lived. What motivated me are the basic things in football, like when you are a kid you play in the street with your neighbours, three against three, four against four, and you want to win. That’s the most pure feeling in football.
 
“If you are in a championship, you want to win it. It doesn’t depend on the level you are. To be champions in the Premier League is not a different feeling to winning the championship in League One, League Two or the Conference. The happiness, also the frustrations … in terms of human feelings, they’re exactly the same.
 
“But the moment itself, it only lasts for a flash. For that moment a final finishes, or the game that gives you the league ends, you have like a flash of the people you love most, the people who are with you, a little bit of the most important moments that lead to that trophy. It’s like a quick flash. And, with me, five minutes later, I move on. I have to think about next season, to prepare. We need to think about that.”
 
Chelsea have led the division – barring Tottenham Hotspur topping the table on goal difference for the second full week of the campaign – all season, re-establishing their advantage in the new year after Manchester City had threatened to haul them in. Mourinho, who will welcome back Loïc Rémy against Palace but will not risk Diego Costa, has relished the fact that the pressure has always been on the chasing pack.
 
“I prefer that because it depends only on you,” he said. “When people sometimes say: ‘It’s yours to lose, so you’re under pressure’ … we are not under pressure. The pressure is on the teams who have to win and wait for us to lose. It happened a bit to us last season. We were winning and winning but we had to wait for the others to drop points. This season, basically since March, when we recovered the distance we’d lost in December, the problem was for the others to deal with. They had to win.
 
“Some of them had fantastic runs. Manchester United had I don’t know how many victories consecutively [six], Arsenal too [eight], but they couldn’t close the gap. This is the real pressure. For us, it was just about us. Nothing else matters. Just us. This weekend we don’t care about Hull City against Arsenal, or United against West Bromwich Albion. It’s just about us. This is the feeling I like. Not to be depending on the others.
 
“I’m never nervous, to be fair. When it goes to the countdown, I like the feeling that we have to force it. We can’t wait for it. I like the feeling of the last month: come on, let’s go, we need four victories, three victories, two. Now we need one. I like this feeling of being almost there but not there. I like this last push.”


