http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/02/dave-mackay-scotland-tottenham-hearts

Dave Mackay of Scotland, Hearts, Tottenham and Derby, dies aged 80


Dave Mackay, the former Hearts, Tottenham and Derby captain, has passed away aged 80. The news was confirmed by Tottenham on their official website on Monday night. “We were saddened to hear of the death of our former captain Dave Mackay who passed away at the Queen’s Medical Centre, Nottingham, this evening [Monday 2 March]. He was 80,” it read.
 
“Dave was one of the most influential players of his era and was already an established Scotland international when he joined us from Hearts in March 1959,” Spurs said. “He was a superb player who possessed all the technique, passing ability and talent to be the complete footballer.
 
“He was the heartbeat of our 1961 Double side, was then a key member of the team that retained the FA Cup the following season and although injury kept him out of our 1963 European Cup Winners’ Cup final triumph, he had played a vital role in getting us there.” Mackay, who won 22 caps and scored four goals for his country, left Spurs for Derby in 1968, was named joint Footballer of the Year the following season, along with Tony Book. Tottenham’s statement continued: “George Best once described him as ‘The hardest man I have ever played against – and certainly the bravest.’
 
“Dave Mackay will certainly always be remembered here as one of our greatest ever players and a man who never failed to inspire those around him. In short, a Spurs legend. We extend our condolences to the Mackay family at this sad time.” He went on to win the league with the Rams as a player and manager.
 
Mackay left Tottenham to join Derby in 1968 and helped Brian Clough’s side win promotion to the First Division the following year before taking up a player-manager role at Swindon Town in 1971. 
 
A year later Mackay left the Robins to manage Nottingham Forest for a brief spell before succeeding Clough as Derby manager in 1973, with the Rams winning the First Division title in 1975. 
 
Hearts also paid tribute to Mackay, who won four trophies in six years with the Tynecastle side. “Heart of Midlothian FC was deeply saddened to learn of the death of legend Dave Mackay earlier this evening,” a statement on the Scottish Championship club’s website read. 
 
“Dave lost his long battle with illness at the age of 80 with his family at his bedside in Nottingham. 
 
“A fearless defender regarded as the club’s greatest-ever player, Dave won the league title, Scottish Cup and Scottish League Cup (twice) with Hearts before going on to star for Tottenham Hotspur and Derby County. 
 
“Our sincerest condolences go to his family at this extremely sad time.” 
 
Walsall, whom Mackay managed from March 1977 to August 1978, said: “Former Walsall FC manager, Dave Mackay, has passed away at the age of 80. Our thoughts go out to his family at this sad time. RIP.” 
 
The late George Best once spoke of Mackay as being “probably the hardest player I ever played against”, adding in a FourFourTwo interview shortly before his own death in 2005: “When he broke his leg, he got up as if it was a slight knock.” 


