http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/22/steven-gerrard-sent-off-liverpool-manchester-united

Liverpool’s Steven Gerrard sent off after 38 seconds against Manchester United


Steven Gerrard was sent off less than a minute after his half-time introduction against Manchester United at Old Trafford on Sunday.
 
The Liverpool captain had only just come on as a substitute when he appeared to stamp on United midfielder Ander Herrera.
  
 Related: Liverpool 1-2 Manchester United | Premier League match report 
   
Referee Martin Atkinson barely hesitated as he brandished the red card in the direction of Gerrard, who had been on the pitch for just 38 seconds after replacing Adam Lallana at half-time, with Liverpool trailing 1-0.
 
Gerrard began his bizarre cameo with a full-blooded challenge on Juan Mata, who had given Manchester United their first-half lead. Mata’s compatriot Herrera attempted to win the ball, leading Gerrard to stamp on Herrera’s right leg.
     Gerrard immediately flew into a tackle on Juan Mata, before stamping on Ander Herrera seconds later. Photograph: Phil Noble/Action Images    
After the game, Gerrard apologised for the incident, adding that he took “full responsibility” for the result.
 
“I need to accept it, the decision was right, I have let my team-mates and manager down today, even more importantly I let all the supporters down,” Gerrard said.
 
“I tried to jump his tackle, I saw his studs and I reacted wrong. I’ve been in the game long enough to know when you do something like that, especially at the timing of the game, at half-time with 45 [minutes] to play, a great opportunity to get back in the game.”
  
 Related: Liverpool v Manchester United: Premier League – as it happened | Jacob Steinberg 
   
Asked what caused his anger to boil over, Gerrard added: “I don’t know. Probably, just the reaction to the initial tackle, I don’t think I should say too much more on it. I came to speak to apologise to everyone in the dressing room, all the supporters, all the players because I take full responsibility for today’s result.”
 
The red card, awarded for violent conduct, means Gerrard will miss league matches against Arsenal away and Newcastle at Anfield, as well as the FA Cup quarter-final replay at Blackburn. It also means the Liverpool legend, who will join LA Galaxy this summer, has just two home games left in his Anfield career - against QPR and Crystal Palace.
     Quick-thinking Liverpool fans restrain Mario Balotelli after a clash with Chris Smalling. Photograph: Paul Ellis/AFP/Getty Images    
Manchester United won the match 2-1 to open up a five-point gap between the sides, who sit in fourth and fifth place in the table.
 
Juan Mata scored twice for the visitors in a bad-tempered match, which also saw Liverpool fans hold back Mario Balotelli, after the Italian, already on a booking, had looked set to start a row with Chris Smalling over a challenge at the side of the pitch.


