http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/05/arsenal-liverpool-brendan-rodgers-premier-league-match-report

Stylish Arsenal leave Liverpool painfully aware of their limitations


Liverpool have been put in their place. Just two matches ago the team’s resurgence after a botched start to the season led Brendan Rodgers to declare his side could still reach second spot in the Premier League; now he admits a top-four finish is almost certainly beyond them. This comprehensive defeat, on the back of the home loss to Manchester United, served as a reality check for the Liverpool manager, who says success in the FA Cup is now his priority as he seeks tangible proof of progress from a patchy campaign.
 
“It’s frustrating that we got ourselves in a position over the last three months, very close, to then come up short in the past two games,” Rodgers said. “But I look at Arsenal and their bench, the world class players on the field with big talent and it shows the continual work we have to do.”
 
Like Chelsea, Manchester City and United, Arsène Wenger’s side have strength in depth that Liverpool lack. That was brought into stark focus at the Emirates. With Martin Skrtel and Steven Gerrard suspended and Daniel Sturridge not fit to start, the visitors improvised but were pulverised by hosts who were sharper and slicker in all areas.
 
Liverpool’s defence lapsed frequently into chaos, their midfield – shorn of Jordan Henderson for the first half as he was assigned to Liverpool’s problematic right wing-back position – did not have enough solidity or creativity, and they had neither a fulcrum nor a predator up front, where Raheem Sterling struggled to justify his valuation of himself.
 
Two fine saves from Simon Mignolet enabled Liverpool to survive Arsenal’s early onslaught but the hosts were still out of sight by half-time after goals by Héctor Bellerín, Mesut Özil and Alexis Sánchez. Henderson converted a penalty in the second period after an impetuous foul on Sterling by the otherwise immaculate Bellerín, but Olivier Giroud curled in another lovely goal in stoppage time to give an emphatic stamp to Arsenal’s victory.
 
Each home goal showcased Arsenal’s qualities – speed, flair and a level of intensity that would likely have had them even higher in the table and still in the Champions League if they had shown it more regularly – and also exposed some of Liverpool’s shortcomings, including rawness or inadequacy in key areas. The match looked like what it was: a clash between teams at different stages of development.
 
Arsenal have not had to sell a top player since Robin van Persie defected to Old Trafford in 2012 and have instead splurged to blend proven talents such as Özil and Sánchez with the high-grade performers the club can now retain. “Something is happening here,” said Wenger as he acknowledged that while Arsenal’s seventh straight win in the league has probably come too late to truly threaten Chelsea at the top of the table, it fuels optimism for the future.
 
Liverpool might have scored first if Lazar Markovic had not spurned a clear shooting chance and instead mis-hit a pass to Sterling. A short time later Alberto Moreno erred as Bellerín put Arsenal in front with a wonderful strike. Moreno and Markovic have goofed several times this season but also displayed plenty of promise. That could be said of most of the recruits Liverpool made last summer, when they lost Luis Suárez and tried to cobble together nearly a whole team with the funds raised.
 
But a couple of the signings look like flops. Mario Balotelli – who, according to Rodgers, ruled himself out of the Arsenal match after suffering a mysterious “knock” in training – has scored only one league goal this season. Dejan Lovren has endured poor form and also an abdominal injury and was left on the bench behind Kolo Touré, who was perhaps Liverpool’s most erratic performer on Saturday. A red card for Emre Can at the Emirates, coupled with Skrtel’s suspension, means that, if fit, Lovren may play alongside Touré in Wednesday’s FA Cup quarter-final replay against Blackburn Rovers. That is a prospect to be relished by Rudy Gestede – should he be fit to play – who tormented a stronger Liverpool defence in the first match at Anfield. It will not inspire Rodgers with much confidence as he pursues the first trophy of a Liverpool reign that is nearing the end of its third season.
 
Winning the FA Cup would not, of course, give Liverpool a Champions League place and Rodgers admits that missing out complicates his efforts to close the gap on Arsenal. “Players want to play at the top level of the game and if you’re not in the Champions League it makes it difficult for you,” Rodgers said. “We showed in our season that we can still fight, be up there challenging … it’s going to be a little like this until we become more stable. We’ve got young players who are growing, getting more experience and then hopefully there will be a period where we qualify again.”
 
Man of the match Héctor Bellerín (Arsenal)


