http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/21/ronaldo-koeman-southampton-liverpool-premier-league

Ronald Koeman extols green grass of St Mary’s before Liverpool visit


Ronald Koeman has known all along that Southampton are unable to tempt players by offering big salaries. However, he believes the club’s ability to guarantee more game time, owing to having a smaller pool, is a reminder to his squad that the grass is not always greener on the other side.
 
Southampton will welcome back three former players in Adam Lallana, Dejan Lovren and Rickie Lambert for the visit of Liverpool on Sunday. Each has experienced mixed fortunes since moving to Anfield, while Calum Chambers has also been in and out of the Arsenal side since his £16m transfer.
 
“We can’t pay salaries like the big teams in the Premier League pay, it’s always less here. If you stay, you stay for different reasons,” Koeman said. “You stay because you are more sure that you play every weekend and it’s not too early – it’s about the age of the player and about the experience of the player. I think it’s normal that you will lose players if you don’t play every season in the Champions League, because that’s the intention for every player to be part of that.”
 
While he would not be drawn into commenting on the trio who departed for Anfield in the summer, he did single out Chambers as an example of why members of his squad may be best to stay put if presented with offers to move elsewhere at the end of the season.
 
Koeman added: “I said to Chambers: ‘Really, I don’t think that it’s a good moment to change and to go to Arsenal because I think you need to develop yourself much more than you are now’. Normally, you will play here much more than you will play in Arsenal, but finally it’s always the decision of the player.”
 
Koeman also believes there remains an element of surprise that Southampton are challenging for fourth position but insists they will not feel any pressure until there are “four or five games” left. He said: “I believe we don’t have that pressure now, because we are surprising people with our position in the table. We will see what happens, we know that we can beat everybody. We still have to play 13 games and a lot can happen.”


