http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/feb/05/tottenham-arsenal-north-london-derby-combined-eleven

Tottenham v Arsenal: which players make our combined XI? | David Hytner

Arsenal (4-3-3) 
David Ospina Four clean sheets in four starts since supplanting Wojciech Szczesny, has been under-worked but spread calmness with unfussy style. 7/10
 
Héctor Bellerín In encouraging form. Has improved positionally while pace allows him both to recover and threaten. Shown personality in recent weeks. 7
 
Per Mertesacker Still not in prime form. It has been a long season for him, without a breather. But has looked better with Koscielny alongside him. 7
 
Laurent Koscielny Battling against the pain of tendinitis, the continuing problem has held him back. Struggled at Southampton but Arsenal are better with him. 7
 
Nacho Monreal Keeping place ahead of Kieran Gibbs, has been one of Arsenal’s best players in past month or so. Dependable. 8
 
Aaron Ramsey Has had fitness problems and has not hit the heights of last season. Fighting to hold his place ahead of Tomas Rosicky for the derby. 6
  
 Related: Everton v Liverpool: which players make our combined XI? 
   
Francis Coquelin Nobody saw this coming. A revelation since being recalled from loan at Charlton in mid-December. Has provided bite and structure. 8
 
Santi Cazorla One of the form players in England. Has thrived in a deeper, central role and regularly been a joy to watch. 9
 
Theo Walcott Feeling his way back after a nightmarish injury lay-off, the movement remains positive but needs games to find his rhythm. 6
 
Olivier Giroud Has shown hunger since his return from injury. His game seems more fine-tuned. Five goals in seven appearances. 8
 
Mesut Özil Only just back from injury, has bulked up and looks ready to fight for the right to play. Whet the appetite with a lovely performance against Villa. 7
 Tottenham (4-2-3-1)  
Hugo Lloris It has reached the point where his jaw-dropping reflex saves are the norm. Routinely inspires gratitude from fans and team-mates. 9/10
 
Kyle Walker Back in a groove after nine months out, has shown he is his old self. Mauricio Pochettino’s style suits him. 7
 
Federico Fazio Has stabilised after a rocky start but still not entirely convincing. Making too many mistakes. 6
 
Jan Vertonghen Intense competitor, has shown a relish for the physical battle, even if he sometimes strays close to the edge. Commanding. 8
  
 Related: Atlético Madrid v Real Madrid: which players make our combined XI? 
   
Danny Rose Has improved defensively and in terms of concentration. Works hard up and down the flank. Ultra-committed in the tackle. 7
 
Nabil Bentaleb Just back from the Africa Cup of Nations with Algeria, he intends to continue the driving form he showed before he left. 7
 
Ryan Mason Thinks about every pass and rarely loses possession, he has brought poise and tenacity in central areas. 7
 
Érik Lamela Can be infuriating because the raw talent is there. Prone to lapses but has shown flickers of his quicksilver threat. 6
 
Mousa Dembélé Fighting to make the No10 position his own. Always looking for the killer pass. Sometimes wants too many touches. 7
 
Christian Eriksen One of Tottenham’s outstanding performers, has decided tight games with the burgeoning force of his talent and technique. 9
 
Harry Kane Has rocketed from third-choice striker to talismanic leader of the line. Strong, deceptively quick and lethal, his direct style unnerves defenders. 9
 
This, then, is our combined XI, based on form ahead of this weekend’s derby.
     Our combined Arsenal and Tottenham XI, playing in a 4-3-3 formation. Adjusted in light of Alexis Sánchez’s injury. Photograph: David Hytner  

