http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/06/steven-gerrard-liverpool-raheem-sterling-jordan-henderson

Steven Gerrard: Liverpool must secure Raheem Sterling and Jordan Henderson


Steven Gerrard has warned Liverpool to secure new long-term contracts for Raheem Sterling and Jordan Henderson “before it is too late” and admitted being worried by the delay in agreeing terms with the England pair.
 
Liverpool have been in contract negotiations with representatives of Sterling and Henderson for several months, with their current deals due to expire in 2017 and 2016 respectively. Ian Ayre, the club’s chief executive, held another round of talks over Sterling’s contract at the beginning of January but, despite suggestions a deal was close, the 20-year-old has not put pen to paper one month on.
 
The Sterling negotiations have been accompanied by reports the forward is unhappy with the terms on offer, although one complicating factor is that the player’s agent, Aidy Ward, is in the process of leaving his current employer Impact Sports Management to start his own company. Gerrard, however, claims “there is no smoke without fire” and has also voiced concern that his potential successor as Liverpool captain, Henderson, has been allowed to enter the final 17 months of his current contract.
 
Gerrard said: “They need to sign him [Sterling] now. He knows what I want him to do. Not just him, Jordan Henderson as well. When I was coming through at Liverpool, every time you got within a couple of years left your contract would be renewed and there would no worrying or panic stage, but I see Henderson with a year left and I see Sterling – it is in the paper too much and I know there is no smoke without fire.
 
“So, for me, the message to the club is to get these done sharpish because these are the future of the club and I want to watch this team do well, in cup finals and challenging for the league. Those players, Sterling, Henderson – [Philippe] Coutinho and [Daniel] Sturridge who just signed up – they are the ones who are going to deliver, so it’s vital they get them done before it is too late.”
 
The Liverpool captain’s immediate focus is Saturday’s Merseyside derby against Everton, his 33rd and final confrontation with his local rivals unless they meet in the Europa League later this season. Gerrard has scored 10 goals in the fixture only Ian Rush has scored more for Liverpool, and admits it is the game he will miss most when he moves to LA Galaxy this summer.
 
“This is my favourite game of the season,” the 34-year-old said. “I love playing against Everton. I’ve got friends and family members who are big Blues and it’s all about the bragging rights in the city.”
 
Gerrard added: “I love the banter with Everton fans. It’s what it’s all about. It’s about rivalries and big games of football. I’m up for all that. I don’t mind it at all. Bring it on as far as I’m concerned. I’ve got respect for all the Everton players and the Everton fans. I think they’re a terrific football club but once that whistle goes I want to beat them. That’s a good problem for me.”


