http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/10/steven-gerrard-liverpool-goodbye-painful-poignant-chelsea

Steven Gerrard’s long Liverpool goodbye is becoming painful and poignant | Barney Ronay


At a hot, sunlit, slightly dreamy Stamford Bridge, Steven Gerrard’s season continued to dwindle away into an extended, slow-burn farewell tour. A proper goodbye at Anfield awaits next week against Crystal Palace, with Gerrard’s own valediction free to take centre stage in a match that has now lost any meaning after this 1-1 draw.
 
But this was still an unusually poignant occasion in Gerrard’s career endgame, not to mention a very distinct kind of goodbye in its own right, the last time Liverpool’s captain will ever put himself up against one of the Premier League’s heavyweights. Plus, of course, this was also the last time Gerrard will face a club he came so close to joining a decade ago, famously staying up all night pacing his living room before deciding, finally, to reject the chance to play for José Mourinho.
 
The Chelsea manager came across and offered an embrace as Gerrard left the pitch to a surprisingly warm, hearteningly generous, and – let’s face it – slightly hypocritical reception from all four sides of a ground that has thrown so much bile his way down the years.
 
If at times this match had the air of a half-throttle Viking funeral for one of the great Premier League careers, then whatever the tribal position on potential unfulfilled, or mistakes made in the course of a thrillingly committed career, there was something undeniably moving in seeing Gerrard leave the pitch for the final time against a champion opponent.
 
And in a way this was the ultimate Gerrard performance, Gerrard squared, on a day when Liverpool’s hopes of achieving anything tangible this season were finally euthanised out of existence. Gerrard has often seemed to be playing a kind of shadow match in a Liverpool shirt, harried and hassled and driven on to ever more furious bursts of energy by the ghosts of the Liverpool teams he might have played in.
 
His sheer mania, the refusal ever to stop, inconsolably late for some unspecified appointment, has always suggested a man slightly out of time, playing always to make amends.
 
Here there was a painful echo within a painful echo, just over a year on from the 2-0 defeat at Anfield, the slip, Demba Ba and a defeat that derailed what might have been a seductive moment of late-career glory. Here the prize was smaller, a slight and always getting slighter chance to make it into the top four this season, which began to melt away from the moment John Terry put Chelsea into a fifth-minute lead.
           José Mourinho and Brendan Rodgers give their reactions after their teams draw 1-1    
At which point this looked like turning into a cruel occasion for Gerrard, who seemed, even last season, to be playing on a frazzled late career adrenaline kick, but who this year has simply looked a man out of time at this level.
 
Here he was given a poisonously mocking reception throughout, complete with regular renditions of what Mourinho called “the negative song to a dear enemy”, and bursts of glee ate every slip and misplaced pass.
 
And yet, to his credit, Gerrard kept going. He did not play well, by any measure. Instead he played like a man with 708 matches and 15 professional seasons on the clock, wheezing across the pitch in his deep-lying role and completing just 72% of his 32 passes, a man up to his knees but still bailing heroically with a tooth mug.
 
Just before half-time, though, he scored: dropping off the back of Mikel John Obi with a fine piece of movement at a set piece and heading in from six yards. And then finally, with the game gently melting away, there was that reception as Gerrard left the pitch after 78 minutes. It was a fine moment, and an unexpected one too, returned by a brief clap around the ground, providing a brief flicker of some parallel world in which Gerrard did indeed go the other way after that 2005 Champions League victory to slip triumphantly in alongside Frank Lampard.
 
There will be time for plenty more valedictory notes in the next two weeks. But this felt like a significant shade of farewell for Gerrard, if only for the sense of grace at another difficult afternoon nobly borne, in what has been a tantalising, sometimes painful end to his Anfield career.
 
It seems clear Liverpool’s captain has played on if not a season, then a season and a half too long for his own good. Albeit, it also is not hard to see why Brendan Rodgers has kept him clanking along in his midfield. Much that has been good about Liverpool’s season was on display here.
 
In Raheem Sterling and Philippe Coutinho, Rodgers has a pair of attacking midfielders who would decorate any team, but with a sense of callowness that is in itself a reminder of what a genuinely fine and stirring presence Gerrard was throughout his extended prime.
 
Liverpool’s season may be all but over. Gerrard may have had a difficult afternoon, illuminated by his goal and by the warmth as he left the pitch. But his departure will be felt beyond Liverpool, and long after he finally goes two weeks from now, if only for that beautifully frazzled, gloriously unspent sense of longing.


