http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/05/oscar-chelsea-injury-brazil-copa-america

Chelsea’s Oscar pulls out of Brazil’s Copa América campaign after injury


The Chelsea forward Oscar has been ruled out for the remainder of the season, and next month’s Copa América, after sustaining a thigh injury in training.
 
The Brazil international had hoped to feature in the summer tournament in Chile, which starts on 11 June, but will not be involved after José Mourinho spoke with the national manager, Dunga, and relayed news of the muscular problem. “I am very sad not to be playing for my country in the Copa América,” the player tweeted. “Thank you all for caring.”
 
The 23-year-old has had a frustrating few months, hampered by niggling injuries and illness, and has failed to play a full 90 minutes for the Premier League champions since 27 January. He suffered a blow to the head in the recent draw at Arsenal, a knock that required hospital treatment and ruled him out of the win at Leicester in midweek, and then suffered a leg injury back at Cobham before the title-winning win over Crystal Palace.
 
“Oscar got an injury in his last training session with Chelsea,” said Dunga, who had leant heavily on the player in his eight games since returning as Brazil’s manager after last summer’s World Cup finals. “We spoke with [José] Mourinho and the doctor at Chelsea and his recuperation will take time. He wouldn’t be at his best during the Copa América. After the Copa América we have World Cup qualifiers, and we thought it best for him to be ready for those.”
 
Brazil, who open their campaign against Peru on 14 June before group games against Colombia and Venezuela, have included the former Real Madrid and Manchester City striker Robinho, who is on loan at Santos from Milan.
 
There are places, too, for Liverpool’s Philippe Coutinho “who will feature in his first major tournament” and Oscar’s club-mates, Filipe Luís and Willian. The Paris Saint-Germain trio of David Luiz, Marquinhos and Thiago Silva are also included.


