http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/04/ryan-mason-tottenham

Ryan Mason believes Tottenham must learn how to win when playing badly


Ryan Mason has accused Tottenham Hotspur of showing naivety this season and said the team must learn how to win when playing poorly if they are to improve.
 
The Spurs midfielder was left deeply frustrated by his side’s 1-0 defeat to Manchester City at White Hart Lane on Sunday, when the hosts started brightly and created enough chances to take the lead only to see City do so themselves via Sergio Agüero’s 29th-minute strike. The goal was particularly galling for Tottenham as it came after the City goalkeeper, Joe Hart, had intercepted their corner and instigated a quick counterattack.
 
Having taken the lead, Manuel Pellegrini’s side increasingly took control and ultimately left Spurs to reflect on a run in which they have won just once in their past five matches and, with three league fixtures remaining, they look all but certain to finish sixth for a second successive season.
 
“City knew how to shut out the game and this is something we have to learn quickly for next season because we have got a young team and we need to learn how to play bad and win games,” said Mason. “First and foremost we want to win games, play attractive football and score goals. But there are times when maybe we’ve been a bit naive at times.”
 
On a personal level, Mason can take huge encouragement from this campaign. Having been on the fringes at Spurs since joining the club as a trainee in 2008 – so much so that he joined Yeovil, Doncaster, Millwall and Swindon on loan to experience first-team football – the 23-year-old is finally established at the north London club. He has made 34 appearances in all competitions for Mauricio Pochettino’s side and impressed enough to be called up to the England squad. He made his debut in March’s 1-1 draw against Italy.
 
“It’s been a breakthrough season,” said Mason. “I’m delighted how it’s been and the challenge now is to carry on and keep improving for next season.
 
“It is the first time I am going into a break feeling like a footballer. After the next three games I’ll look forward to it, but probably within a couple of weeks I will be dying to get back into pre-season.”


