http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/12/football-transfer-rumours-liverpool-gonzalo-higuain

Football transfer rumours: Liverpool to sign Gonzalo Higuaín from Napoli?


Sometimes the Mill wonders what its doing it all for. There is always tittle, there is always tattle. But, friends, WHERE ARE THE TRANSFERS? Where are they? Where are the moves? Where are they? Why? What? Where? When will someone move from one club to another club? The Mill cannot live on idle speculation alone. There is only so many times you can scream
 
JERMAIN DEFOE TO LEICESTER, ESTER, Ester, ter …
 
into the void and be unmoved when the void just stares back. Sometimes you need validation. A farmer can till the earth for days. Months. Years. And yet he tills in hope, knowing that one day he’ll get a harvest. The Mill? We get transfer deadline day. And everyone always says that’s underwhelming. Yet here we are. Every day.
 
VINCENT KOMPANY TO BARCELONA, ONA, ona, na, na na
 
It makes no difference. Wilfried Bony has been moving to Manchester City for the best part of an ice age and it’s still not actually happened. It will, of course. Eventually. But to what end? And at what cost? Well, about £30m actually. But that’s not the point.
 
PARMA WANT MARIO BALOTELLI, ELLI, elli, elli, li, li
 
Forgive the Mill for feeling all existential. It’s a wet and windy January Monday and if you can’t feel all existential on a wet windy January Monday then when can you fell all existential? Anyway, here are some football transfer rumours:
 
Swansea want Papiss Cissé to replace you know who.
 
Aymeric Laporte’s move from Bilbao to Manchester United is all but done.
  
 Related: Newcastle’s Moussa Sissoko courts Arsenal with ‘club of my heart’ talk 
   
Liverpool want Fiorentina goalkeeper and budget supermarket Neto but will have to fork out £2m if they want to sign him this month.
 
And Balotelli’s departure will fund a move for Napoli’s Gonzalo Higuaín. Rickie Lambert could also be on his way out of Anfield, with Crystal Palace and West Brom hovering expectantly.
 
Tottenham midfielder Paulinho is off to Juventus.
 
And Aston Villa are going to sign Carles Gil.
 
From Valencia.
 
For £3.2m.
 
Not that it matters.


