http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/18/chelsea-jose-mourinho-phenomenal-thibaut-courtois-psg-draw

Chelsea’s José Mourinho hails phenomenal Thibaut Courtois in PSG draw


José Mourinho praised Thibaut Courtois’ performance as “phenomenal” after the Belgian’s saves helped earn Chelsea a critical draw at Paris Saint-Germain, and the manager admitted five of his players had been unable to train before the first leg in France.
 
Courtois, recalled despite Petr Cech excelling in the victory over Everton last Wednesday, conjured fine saves to thwart Blaise Matuidi and, most impressively, Zlatan Ibrahimovic deep into stoppage time to deny PSG an advantage with which to travel to London next month. Instead Chelsea will cling to Branislav Ivanovic’s precious away goal as they seek to force passage into the quarter-finals for the seventh time in nine years.
 
Mourinho praised the impact made by both his goalkeepers when appraising Courtois’ display. “If football was about having nine outfield players plus two goalkeepers, we would give no chance to anyone,” said the Chelsea manager. “We would be absolutely phenomenal because they’re both phenomenal.”
 
Asked specifically whether the Belgian had saved his team, he added: “Yes. Phenomenal. He made two or three important saves in the game. But this was a difficult opponent and my team gave everything. Many times you know an injured player who cannot play. Most of the times you don’t know the players who have problems and try, with the medical staff and technical department, to play.
 
“Since the Everton game, [Eden] Hazard, Willian, Oscar, [Cesc] Fàbregas and Ivanovic didn’t train. They did some individual training to try and keep running and moving but they didn’t play a full part in training.
 
“They came out to [open] training on Monday because they wanted to show they were ready. They tried to give their best but Fàbregas has had three days in bed with a high temperature and there were injured guys without training … We felt that a little in the second half, when Paris were closer to winning the game than Chelsea.”
 
The visitors had controlled the opening period, earning their reward when Ivanovic nodded in a seventh Champions League goal since 2009, a tally no other defender can match. PSG emerged revitalised after the interval and equalised through Edinson Cavani.
 
The French club’s players and management were united in their praise of Courtois. Ibrahimovic called him “world-class”. “We didn’t win the game tonight because of a great performance by their goalkeeper,” said David Luiz, who had scored an own-goal in this fixture while playing for Chelsea last season. “Without him, we would have won. He was great. But we controlled the game, they scored from their one opportunity and I think we can go through over there.”
 
“What amazes me is that Courtois, despite his height, is still very quick,” said Laurent Blanc. “I watched the two headers he saved from Ibrahimovic and he moves so quickly on his feet to react to both of them. He’s one of the top goalkeepers in the world. Chelsea know they have one of the greatest keepers out there.”
 
His sidePSG are unbeaten in 33 home games in European competition, stretching back to 2006. Blanc admitted his team are at a slight disadvantage in the tie despite what he deemed to have been a more impressive performance than in last season’s 3-1 first-leg victory in the clubs’ quarter-final meeting.
 
Mourinho has never lost a Champions League tie after securing a score draw in the first leg away from home but suggested his side’s advantage was “minimal”. He continues to seek greater protection for Hazard who was fouled nine times over the course of the evening. The Chelsea manager stressed the treatment received by the forward was no different to that to which he is subjected every week in the Premier League.
 
“But compare him today with, for example, [Marco] Verratti: another kind of player who stays on the floor, rolls on the grass and screams, asking for cards as he goes to ground.
 
“But [Eden]’s pure. He’s pure. When he goes to the floor he goes down for some reasons. Today there were nine fouls. In the Premier League it’s no different. At Stoke it was an unbelievable situation [when David Bardsley clattered him near the touchline]. This is what happens game after game. We all know the player is a very good player. As an opponent, you have to keep a certain attitude with him. The only way to protect him is to give cards to the opponent, follow the rules of the game. It’s as simple as that.”


