http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/21/thobaut-courtois-chelsea-can-win-quadruple-liverpool-capital-one-cup-semi-final

Thibaut Courtois: ‘Chelsea squad strong enough to win the quadruple’


Thibaut Courtois has said Chelsea can win a clean sweep of European and domestic honours and are being spurred towards that goal by the memory of finishing last season empty-handed.
 
The Chelsea goalkeeper produced a commanding performance in Tuesday’s Capital One Cup semi-final first leg at Liverpool on his return from injury. While Liverpool produced the stronger display on the night, Courtois’ defiance in the 1-1 draw ensured José Mourinho’s team will be confident of reaching the 1 March final with victory in next week’s second leg at Stamford Bridge.
 
Chelsea are one win from their first League Cup final in eight years, have a five-point lead over Manchester City at the Premier League summit, host League One Bradford City in the FA Cup fourth round on Saturday and drew Paris Saint-Germain in the knock-out stage of the Champions League. And the Belgium international admits he, along with the club’s summer signings, are desperate for the first silverware of their Chelsea careers.
 
“Myself, Costa, Filipe, Fàbregas and the rest of the team want to win trophies for Chelsea. That starts in the League Cup to the last game in the Champions League,” said Courtois. “We want to win everything, it will be difficult, but I think we have the team to do it. Hopefully we can achieve it.”
 
Mourinho dismissed suggestions after the Anfield draw that Chelsea have the resources to win four competitions this season, arguing that “it is too difficult”. But his first-choice goalkeeper insists that is the team’s target.
           José Mourinho: Chelsea are one victory away from Wembley.    
Courtois added: “It’s difficult to say if we could win all four but we are playing well. We have passed through all competitions. Now we are in the semi-final of the Capital One Cup, are top of the league, there is an important game in the FA Cup on Saturday which we have to win and soon we will be playing PSG in the Champions League. It will be hard but we have the team that can win everything. It’s what we’re aiming for.
 
“If you play a final and win it, you get that feeling to win trophies and you want to win more and more and more. That feeling is in the whole group now, especially after what happened last season when they didn’t win anything and were close to some trophies. You want to win everything that’s possible, starting with the League Cup.”
 
Mourinho’s decision to recall Courtois at Liverpool had been a surprise with Petr Cech impressing during the 22-year-old’s three-match absence with a broken thumb and playing in previous rounds of the Capital One Cup.
 
“I was not 100% fit last week,” said the Chelsea keeper. “I still had pain in my thumb and it’s not good to play if you know you can’t help the team at the fullest. We have another top keeper who was there to play so the thinking was about the team. I was able to train two or three times before this game at 100% so I was good to play last night. With the little protection I wear, I don’t feel anything, which is really good. I have no pain in the thumb now.”
 
The Liverpool manager, Brendan Rodgers, said he had absolute belief in his team’s ability to beat Chelsea and reach Wembley but Courtois claims Mourinho’s team will take confidence from their unbeaten record at Stamford Bridge this season.
 
“I think the draw is a good result, it could have been worse,” said Courtois. “Now the second leg will be like a final, in front of our fans, and I think we have to be able to win. We know we are strong at home but every game is difficult. Liverpool have been playing really well these last few weeks and are really dangerous. We know it will be tough but I think we are able to do more at home. We have to win that game.”


