http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/07/blackburn-matt-kilgallon-liverpool-jordan-henderson-fa-cup

Blackburn’s Matt Kilgallon relishes reunion with Henderson at Liverpool


Blackburn Rovers are clear underdogs when they travel to Anfield for their FA Cup quarter-final on Sunday afternoon, yet the same was true at Ewood Park in the last round, especially when Stoke City took an early lead. It looked as if the Premier League side were on their way to the last eight but Josh King and Blackburn had other ideas. The Norwegian striker scored a hat-trick as Blackburn ran out comfortable 4-1 winners, and though King is an injury doubt this weekend the Rovers captain, Matt Kilgallon, believes confidence still courses through the Championship team.
 
“We fancied ourselves against Stoke, we knew we were not far off their level,” Kilgallon says. “The way Liverpool are playing at the moment I don’t thing we could have possibly landed a harder tie, but we are up for it. When the draw was made we were all together at Cardiff for an away game and we were excited, really happy at the prospect. We know it is going to be tough but we have been preparing specifically for the game in training and we are determined to give it a really good go.”
 
The two captains at Anfield know each other of old, Kilgallon having played for Sunderland when a promising Jordan Henderson was coming through the youth ranks. “Promising would be an understatement, really,” the 31-year-old Kilgallon says. “Even at such a young age you could see Jordan had everything. He looked a proper professional then and he’s kicked on since. He got his dream move and it’s nice to see him doing well. He’s probably their best player at the minute, running up and down that pitch all day to make them tick. I’ve no doubt he’ll end up being a top Liverpool captain.”
 
If he does Sir Alex Ferguson will be a little embarrassed, for it was Henderson’s allegedly awkward running style that put Manchester United off signing him. “I’m not sure I want to enter into an argument with Sir Alex, but nothing like that ever occurred to me,” Kilgallon says. “You grow into your body, don’t you? If there ever was anything odd about Jordan’s gait he’s filled out since and cracked on.”
 
Sunderland was not the happiest turning on Kilgallon’s career route around the north of England. After spells with Leeds and Sheffield United he was taken to Wearside by Steve Bruce, who hardly ever picked him. “It’s a great club, and when I did get games I enjoyed playing in front of 45,000 people, but I didn’t play as much as I wanted to,” he said.
 
“I wouldn’t say I regretted going there. You learn wherever you go and I even managed to pick things up from Paolo Di Canio, but overall it wasn’t great for me. If I had had a crystal ball I might not have gone there, but when you are a centre-half and Steve Bruce is knocking on your door, what are you supposed to do?”
 
A couple of short-term loans followed by a permanent move to Blackburn was the eventual answer. Having witnessed the meltdown at Leeds first hand, Kilgallon could have been forgiven for hesitating over joining another club that appeared to be in self-inflicted decline, though he received assurances from the first team coach, Craig Short, and has not looked back since.
 
“I knew Shorty from Sheffield United and he told me the new gaffer [Gary Bowyer] was turning the club around,” he explains. “I was aware Blackburn had been in turmoil but I trusted Craig and this has been a great move for me. There’s a really good group of players here now, we all fight for each other and want the same thing. Not many Championship clubs fancy coming here to play us any more. A while ago they would come and have a go to see if we would fall apart, but that doesn’t happen any longer. This is a big club. We might be slightly off the play-off pace at the moment but we are moving in the right direction again, and we have kept the big club mentality.”
 
Kilgallon cheerfully admits his career path has been somewhat haphazard, not helped by joining clubs who kept changing managers, but would never think of complaining. “I love it,” he says. “You can’t say this is a hard job, you just have to accept football can be full of ups and downs. I went out on loan from Leeds to West Ham when I was 18. I did all right, enjoyed it. Alan Pardew wanted to keep me but Leeds wanted me back. Being a Yorkshire boy I didn’t mind going back, but West Ham went up that season and Leeds came down. That’s life. I do sometimes think it might be nice to work with the same manager for a few years, but until now I have never really had the chance.”
 
That might explain why he views Henderson joining Liverpool as a dream move. What it does not explain, and what everyone would probably like Kilgallon to explain, is exactly what he learned from Di Canio. “Military precision,” comes the answer. “He would be down on you like a ton of bricks if you even took a shortcut past a cone in a warm-up. Of course, that was annoying at the time, but as you get older you start to think he might have had a point. Maybe you would get a better warm-up if you just ran round the cone and stopped looking for easier options.” But did Di Canio really pay attention to such microscopic detail? “He certainly did,” Kilgallon says. “He didn’t miss a trick.”


