Hull City¡¯s Allan McGregor denies Charlie Austin to secure win at QPR

James Chester will never eclipse Rio Ferdinand¡¯s career achievements but the Hull City centre-back did elude the former England captain here to head a precious winning goal and ruin QPR¡¯s return to the Premier League. That crowned a gleaming display by the 25-year-old, but Ferdinand had been impeccable until that point and Rangers had been on top.

Chester¡¯s 52nd-minute strike will stand as a painful reminder to Harry Redknapp¡¯s promoted side that in the Premier League teams can pay a hefty price for squandering chances. Charlie Austin missed their most obvious opportunity, his 83rd-minute penalty being saved by Allan McGregor, but the hosts spurned several openings before that, especially in a first half in which they started timidly before working up an impressive head of steam and threatening to blow away the visitors.

¡°I was very pleased with how we played, some days it just does not go your way,¡± said Redknapp. ¡°We played ever so well in the first half. We had good control, a good shape and we passed it well and created good chances.¡±

That is true. Rangers looked solid in a 3-5-2 formation with Ferdinand and another new signing, Steven Caulker, combining with Richard Dunne to prevent Hull from mustering a single shot on target in the first period.

The visitors did seem more fluent in the early stages but once Loic R¨¦my forced a save from McGregor in the 13th minute, Rangers grew in confidence and took charge.

Alejandro Faurlin fizzed a low shot wide after swivelling near the penalty spot. Joey Barton curled a free-kick into the side netting and Jordon Mutch nodded wide from close range after a fine run and cross by R¨¦my.

Hull¡¯s worries deepened when one of their new acquisitions, Robert Snodgrass, departed with suspected knee ligament damage just before half-time. Another summer recruit, the 20-year-old Andrew Robertson, saved them in the 43rd minute by heading a Caulker header off the line after a Rangers corner.

The one upside to Snodgrass¡¯s loss was that his replacement, Stephen Quinn, helped turn the game back in the visitors¡¯ favour. Seven minutes into the second half he delivered a corner and Ferdinand was caught unaware as Chester held him off and headed into the net.

Redknapp said that did not diminish his satisfaction with the 35-year-old¡¯s contribution. ¡°He was excellent, it was almost a masterclass in how to play at the back,¡± he said. ¡°He looks so comfortable, his touch, his reading of the game. [For the goal] there was plenty of bodies in there, they¡¯re getting blocks in and all sorts and the fellow just spun off him. It was good movement, it can happen.¡±

Hull could have added a second when Quinn played a canny reverse pass to Thomas Ince but Rob Green blocked well.

They continued their quest for a second and Chester remained a menace from corners, one of his headers leading to Nikica Jelavic whacking a volley inches over and in the 80th minute Chester made a decisive intervention at the other end, clearing a Barton cross just as R¨¦my readied himself to convert from close range.

Seven minutes from time Chester was harshly penalised when a cross by Junior Hoilett hit his hand but his sense of grievance did not last long as McGregor beat away Austin¡¯s soft spot-kick.

¡°That¡¯s one win, we need nine more,¡± said Steve Bruce, for whom survival remains the main ambition. ¡°So that¡¯s one win per month ¨C it sounds easy but it¡¯s not if that was anything to go by.¡±

Redknapp, meanwhile, is confident his team can achieve the same goal. ¡°We played better here than we did in the majority of our games in the Championship last year and we¡¯re only going to get better,¡± he said before confirming that the club intends signing ¡°two or three¡± more players this week.