Swansea winger Nathan Dyer¡¯s fine finish sends Burnley home pointless

Swansea did their summer recruitment among World Cup players from South America; Burnley did their shopping at Blackpool, Bolton and Middlesbrough. No surprises in this result then.

The Swans, who defeated Manchester United at Old Trafford on the opening day, remain one of the most attractive teams in the Premier League ¨C a situation unlikely to change with the arrival of Argentina¡¯s Federico Fern¨¢ndez and Jefferson Montero of Ecuador.

The Clarets scrapped their way out of the Championship as runners-up, and have lost two out of two. Points and pretty football will be at a premium at Turf Moor but that is hardly the fault of Sean Dyche, who is managing them on the proverbial shoestring.

With that in mind, Dyche had more reason than Garry Monk to be encouraged after Nathan Dyer had celebrated his 100th appearance at this level with the decisive goal. Burnley are still reliant on Championship players because they can afford to pay only Championship transfer fees and wages, and their spirited revival in the second half did them great credit.

Dyche said: ¡°We can¡¯t pay ¡ê12m for players, as Swansea have done, and we showed them too much respect up until half-time. I told the players during the interval that I wanted them to play with more freedom and energy and a bit of quality, and I thought they were terrific.¡±

It was fair comment, Burnley twice threatening to gain a point in the closing stages.

Monk said: ¡°They made it hard for us in the second half, when they threw everything at us. In the first half we were in control, but we weren¡¯t clinical enough. After that I thought we defended very well, limiting them to one shot on target in the 90 minutes. Six points is the best start we could have had after two games, but I know you are only ever two games away from having people on your back.¡±

The Swans were comfortably in control for a long time and should have been ahead in the third minute, when Dyer¡¯s cross from the right picked out Wilfried Bony on the edge of the six-yard box. The prolific Ivorian got up well for the header, only to nod it against Tom Heaton¡¯s left-hand post. It was a bad miss by the striker who scored 25 goals for the club in all competitions last season.

The goal came midway through the first half. Gylfi Sigurdsson¡¯s prompting pass sent Dyer sprinting away on the right from where he cut into the penalty area, losing Michael Duff and scoring from 16 yards. The winger¡¯s shot was well struck, but should have been kept out by Heaton, who let the shot through him at his left-hand upright.

Lifted by Dyche¡¯s half-time exhortations, Burnley rallied and after 63 minutes Dean Marney¡¯s cross supplied Lukas Jutkiewicz, whose twisting header was only inches over the crossbar. Four minutes later they were close again, Danny Ings setting up David Jones for a shot, left to right, that Lukasz Fabianski could only parry. Jutkiewicz, following in at the far post, failed narrowly to divert the ball home at close range.

It does not get any easier for the Premier League newcomers, who are at home to Manchester United on Saturday. By that time Dyche hopes to have signed one or two reinforcements, but do not expect any big names ¨C not unless Leicester¡¯s Gary Taylor-Fletcher fancies a move back to Lancashire.