Cesc F¨¢bregas and Diego Costa ¡®fantastic¡¯ for Chelsea, says Sch¨¹rrle

Andr¨¦ Sch¨¹rrle believes Chelsea may have found the extra ingredients needed to win titles in Cesc F¨¢bregas and Diego Costa. The new duo, signed for a combined ¡ê60m this summer, made an immediate impact as the Premier League favourites opened up with a 3-1 win at newly promoted Burnley.

Costa, a former Atl¨¦tico Madrid player, lashed in an equaliser after Burnley had taken a shock lead, while F¨¢bregas was influential throughout and had a hand in all three goals.

Asked if the pair could make the difference, Sch¨¹rrle said: ¡°Yes, I hope so. It was very good. I think for Diego it was a perfect start. For a striker to come in and score his first goal is always important. He played fantastic in the friendly, and he scored. And now his first goal in competition.

¡°Cesc was fantastic for me as well, he always had control of the game. He was always running ¨C two assists. So it was a fantastic night for them both but it was only the first match and we have to keep going.¡±

One of the F¨¢bregas assists, to put Chelsea 2-1 ahead, was for Sch¨¹rrle in what was a wonderfully worked team goal.

Sch¨¹rrle said: ¡°I think a player like Cesc, every team wants him, so we are happy that he decided for Chelsea. We are happy that he is a Blue now. I am 100% sure he will help us this season.¡±

One of the main talking points from the match was Mourinho¡¯s selection of Thibaut Courtois, who has returned from a successful loan at Atl¨¦tico Madrid, in place of the long-time goalkeeper Petr Cech. Sch¨¹rrle hopes it does not spell the end for Cech.

He said: ¡°I hope he stays, of course. He is a great character and is very important for the team. He is a fantastic keeper, one of the best. It¡¯s his decision what he wants to do, but everyone wants him to stay and with him we have a better squad. We will need everyone because hopefully we will have 50-60 matches in all competitions.¡±

Sch¨¹rrle himself is playing catch-up after his involvement in Germany¡¯s World Cup win meant a late start for pre-season training. The 23-year-old added: ¡°I¡¯ve only been training for two weeks after my holidays. It was from zero to 100, directly into team-training and everything.

¡°There¡¯s a lot of work for me, but I¡¯m feeling good. I¡¯m enjoying my game, I¡¯m enjoying being on the pitch. I think the whole team played well. We had a lot of control, passes, good combinations. It was a lot of fun on the pitch.¡±

Sch¨¹rrle is now in his second season at Stamford Bridge following an ¡ê18m move from Bayer Leverkusen. He has been linked with a move as Mourinho reshapes his squad but the German has no intention of leaving and plans to use his World Cup experience to make a big impression.

He said: ¡°I enjoyed the World Cup a lot, so I got out of that with a lot of confidence. I am hungry, I want to achieve something with Chelsea. I want to win titles with Chelsea. It was a good start for me but when I am 100% fit, there will be more.¡±