http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/25/premier-league-2014-15-match-of-season

Premier League 2014-15 review: match of the season | Jacob Steinberg


Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2014-15 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories.
 
We have nominated some contenders, but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Tuesday 26 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
 Everton 3-6 Chelsea  
The perception of Chelsea as dour killjoys does not quite stack up. Although José Mourinho curbed their freewheeling instincts during the run-in, Chelsea were the best attackers in the league when they had to be, especially when they tore Everton apart at Goodison Park in August. Diego Costa ran riot, Cesc Fábregas reigned supreme in midfield and Chelsea’s rivals cowered as the goals flew in.
 
The scoring began inside the first 60 seconds and continued until the last minute. Costa gave Chelsea the lead and they were 2-0 up after three minutes, Branislav Ivanovic finishing coolly, Everton fearing humiliation. Yet Roberto Martínez’s side fought back impressively and Kevin Mirallas dragged them back into the game on the stroke of half-time.
 
Every time Everton threatened to pull level, though, Chelsea pulled away and five goals in the space of 10 crazy second-half minutes swung the game in their favour. By the end of that chaotic little spell, Chelsea led 5-3. It started with Séamus Coleman’s own-goal in the 67th minute. Game over? Not quite, Steven Naismith making it 3-2 two minutes later. Game on!
 
On and on it went. Nemanja Matic made it 4-2 in the 74th minute, pinging a shot past Tim Howard from 20 yards, before Samuel Eto’o’s header against his old side made it 4-3 in the 76th. Game on! Until Ramires made it 5-3 to Chelsea a minute later. It was breathless stuff and there were pointed chants of “boring, boring Chelsea” as Costa ran clear in stoppage time and sealed the points with his second goal.
 Tottenham 5-3 Chelsea 
But we know what Mourinho thinks about hockey scores. This was the match that persuaded him that he needed to tighten his team up, Chelsea undone by a stunning performance from Tottenham, Nemanja Matic exposed by Christian Eriksen, Harry Kane coming of age against the strongest defence in England.
 
Not many people saw it coming, not least when Costa gave Chelsea the lead after 18 minutes. Mourinho’s side were cruising at that point and they thought that they should have had the chance to extend their lead when Jan Vertonghen handled the ball in the Tottenham area. Yet Tottenham made the most of that reprieve and blew Chelsea away in the final 15 minutes of the first half. Kane hauled them level, drilling a shot past Thibaut Courtois from 25 yards, Danny Rose made it 2-1 in the 44th minute and Andros Townsend made it 3-1 with a penalty a minute later.
 
White Hart Lane was in ecstasy when Kane scored again in the 52nd minute, threading an accurate low shot into the bottom corner, although there were a few butterflies in Tottenham stomachs when Eden Hazard bobbled a shot past Hugo Lloris just after the hour. Chelsea had their chances and, briefly, you sensed that Tottenham were going to crumble. Yet Mauricio Pochettino’s side were resolute and Nacer Chadli finished Chelsea off with 12 minutes to go. John Terry’s late goal was nothing more than a consolation in a brilliantly entertaining match.
 Tottenham 2-1 Arsenal 
It was Arsenal’s turn to be put through the wringer at White Hart Lane a month later. In a pulsating match, they grabbed an early lead through Mesut Özil, who volleyed home after a mis-hit shot from Olivier Giroud spooned his way, but Tottenham responded with one of the most complete performances of the season. Ryan Mason and Nabil Bentaleb were hyperactive in midfield and Arsenal were unable to cope with Kane, who could do nothing wrong at that point. Kane equalised just after the hour, sweeping home from close range, and he scored the winner in the 86th minute, planting a cracking header beyond David Ospina. Tottenham looked liked proper top-four contenders after that win but Arsenal always have the last laugh when it comes to the battle for ultimate supremacy in north London these days.
 Leicester 5-3 Manchester United 
Louis van Gaal must have been wondering what he had agreed to after this shambolic defeat at the King Power Stadium. Van Gaal’s ramshackle defence was thoroughly exposed by Leicester City’s brio in attack and the Dutchman later admitted that it was his worst day as Manchester United’s manager. It started encouragingly for United, though, Robin van Persie’s header and Ángel di María’s scooped finish giving them a 2-0 lead after 16 minutes. Yet Leonardo Ulloa hinted at what was to come when he headed Leicester back into the game after 17 minutes and although Ander Herrera made it 3-1 early in the second half, United were overwhelmed. Leicester were gifted a penalty after a sloppy foul by Rafael da Silva, David Nugent scoring, and they equalised in the 64th minute through Esteban Cambiasso. United were rocking and it was not a surprise when Leicester finally went ahead when Jamie Vardy scored in the 79th minute. The humiliation for United was complete when Tyler Blackett was sent off for denying an obvious goalscoring opportunity by fouling Vardy, Ulloa scoring his second and Leicester’s fifth from the spot.
 West Ham 2-1 Manchester City 
Samuele Allardici was the toast of east London after this victory over the reigning champions at Upton Park. How times change, eh? It is easy to forget how good West Ham were in the first half of the season. They had to be at their best to beat City. Both teams contributed to a wonderful match and there had been chances at both ends by the time Morgan Amalfitano gave West Ham the lead in the 21st minute, tapping in from two yards out after City had been sliced open by Alex Song’s perceptive pass and Enner Valencia’s surge past Eliaquim Mangala on the right.
 
City improved after the break, at times threatening to overwhelm West Ham as they pressed for an equaliser. Sergio Agüero and Yaya Touré both hit the crossbar and had efforts saved by Adrián. Yet West Ham doubled their lead in the 75th minute, the goalline technology system showing that Diafra Sakho’s header from Aaron Cresswell’s cross had crossed the line before Joe Hart clawed it out.
 
More drama was on the way. Two minutes later, David Silva cut in from the right and curled a beauty into the far corner to halve the deficit and set up a nervy finish. However West Ham held on for a win that confirmed their status as surprising candidates for a place in the top four. Or so it seemed at the time, anyway.
 Check out the other categories 
Pundit of the season
 
Match of the season
 
Signing of the season
 
Manager of the season
 
Flop of the season
 
Referee of the season
 
Player of the season
 
Goal of the season
 
Gripe of the season
 
Innovations for the future


