http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/25/premier-league-2014-15-manager-of-season

Premier League 2014-15 review: manager of the season | Ian McCourt


Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2014-15 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories.
 
We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Tuesday 26 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
 Ronald Koeman 
Usually it is the mortals who turn to a saint for help but this time it was the Saints who turned to a mortal for help. Crises come in all shapes and sizes but none looked bigger than Southampton’s last summer. Their manager was gone, their chairman was gone and it seemed that every time you opened a newspaper, another Southampton player was gone. Some managers might have blown the money on big-name buys, names that would wow the fans and get them on side, but Koeman and the club thought about the team and bought astutely, with Graziano Pellè, Dusan Tadic, Ryan Bertrand, Saido Mané and Fraser Forster all proving to be big successes in the south. He took these new recruits and hammered them in to a team that, for a long stretch of this season, was positioned in the top five places and looked like they would challenge for a European placing. For a club who lost so much to do so much borders on the amazing; that they played with such (organised) style in attack and such stinginess in defence when doing so makes it all the more incredible. The improvement in the defence has been noted all season but it is worth highlighting one more time. Last time around under Mauricio Pochettino they let in 46 goals; this time around under Koeman they let in 33. What makes all of this even better is that it is the Dutchman’s debut season in the Premier League. Koeman deserves all the credit coming his way.
 Garry Monk 
It wasn’t meant to be like this. Swansea were meant to fail and the club were meant to be left with red faces for appointing Garry Monk, a man with a mere three months of managerial experience. Instead, Monk has been nothing short of brilliant. He has continued Swansea’s brand of attractive, passing football, he has them in the top half of the table, he has led them to a top-flight points total they have bettered only in the old First Division, in 1981-82. He has coped with the loss of big players, he has coped with the loss of his biggest player and he has done the double over both Arsenal and Manchester United – only the third manager to do so since the inception of the Premier League. The fact that he is about to sign a new deal with the club he captained through four divisions will be sweet, sweet music to the ears of Swansea fans.
 José Mourinho 
If this choice is very obvious, it is also very true. José Mourinho may not have won a manager of the month award until the final one but those Premier League and Capital One Cup medals will soften that blow … Should the Chelsea manager require more comfort, however, he can console himself with the knowledge that the side he has created were, by some distance, the best team in the Premier League. Only Manchester City have scored more goals and only Southampton have conceded as few but none have been so rigorously consistent throughout the season – a point perfectly epitomised in the fact that they have been top pretty much all season. He should also be applauded for his control of a dressing room jam-packed with egos as well as identifying the weaknesses in his squad and plugging those holes while other mangers were still on the beach, sipping cocktails and soaking in the sun. This Chelsea side are an almost impeccable fusion of attacking silk and defence steel that few could cope with this season and possibly not next season either. You can thank Mourinho for that.
 Alan Pardew 
If Mourinho is an obvious choice, so too is Alan Pardew. The stat has been trotted out a lot this season but it is worth giving it one more go: if you combined the points he won during his time in charge of Newcastle with the ones from his games at Crystal Palace, Pardew Rovers would have 57 points and a comfortable position in the top half of the table. His influence can be gauged by the upswing in Palace’s fortunes as well as the downturn in Newcastle’s. Before he arrived in south London, they had won once in 14 games; after his arrival they won 10 from 17. In that same space of games, Newcastle have the worse form of any side in the league, picking up a miserable 12 points from the 54 available. Palace finished in 10th this season but with Pardew in charge for the full term next time they should aim for higher.
 Sam Allardyce 
“I think everybody in the world of football has very short memories,” Sam Allardyce said after the loss to Everton. “It’s only what happened a couple of weeks ago or next week that matters. What happened four months ago is forgotten.” He has a point. At the halfway stage of the season, his side were playing good football and being rewarded for it. They sat in fifth place (above Arsenal, Tottenham and Liverpool) and were dreaming of the Champions League. In those opening 18 games Allardyce mastermind some impressive wins and showed that, tactically, he can often out-think the best of them. Of course, the second part of the season has not gone as well but given the resources available to him (or unavailable, in the case of Andy Carroll), that is to be somewhat expected. The season after next, West Ham move to the Olympic Stadium. They will need bums on seats. Premier League football would ensure that and Allardyce can assure the club of Premier League football. Getting rid of him is a huge gamble.
 Check out the other categories 
Pundit of the season
 
Referee of the season
 
Match of the season
 
Signing of the season
 
Flop of the season
 
Player of the season
 
Goal of the season
 
Gripe of the season
 
Innovations for the future


