http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/24/chelsea-bolton-wanderers-capital-one-cup-match-report

Chelsea 2-1 Bolton Wanderers | Capital One Cup third round match report


 
 
José Mourinho has a special affinity with the League Cup, having won it in his first season in charge of Chelsea in 2005. It announced his arrival on the English stage and, that season, his side also lifted the Premier League title.
 
Two years on Mourinho and Co did it again. This time, they completed another “double” by going on to claim the FA Cup as well. Small wonder the Portuguese views the competition with such affection.
 
At Stamford Bridge on Tuesday night, Chelsea began their campaign to win the trophy for the third time this century with a comfortable win against lowly Championship opponents Bolton Wanderers. The scoreline masked a brutally one-sided third-round tie in which Chelsea had 28 attempts on goal, 10 on target. Bolton mustered three attempts as they focused desperately on not caving in completely.
 
André Schürrle was the most wasteful from a remarkable 13 efforts on goal and he was often thwarted in an all-action personal duel with Bolton’s goalkeeper Andy Lonergan. Three times Lonergan spectacularly denied the German – clawing one free-kick just over, tipping another on to the crossbar and scrambling a third close-range effort on to a post. But Schürrle’s persistence was admirable, considering it was not that long ago that he was appearing on the grandest stage of all in Brazil.
 
“André’s performance reflected the mentality of our team,” Steve Holland, the Chelsea assistant first-team coach, said. “Two months ago he was playing in the World Cup final; tonight he was in the third round of the Capital One Cup. He was a good example of what was best about us.
 
“I was very happy with the display of the team. You hope motivation is not a problem, it sometimes can be but everyone was determined to put in a performance. We want to do well in this competition.”
 
A Chelsea second XI, though also including Petr Cech, Oscar, Loïc Rémy and Gary Cahill, opened in machine-gun fashion, spraying Lonergan from all angles.
 
Kurt Zouma, the 19-year-old French centre-back on his competitive debut, made the breakthrough, lashing home after a corner. When Bolton equalised six minutes later, their captain, Matt Mills, nodding in a Liam Feeney free-kick, it was so unexpected as to be laughable.
 
Chelsea regained the lead early in the second half, Oscar guiding in a low drive from 30 yards, and held on despite a late Bolton flurry. “We knew we would have to ride our luck a bit,” Dougie Freedman, the Bolton manager, said. “And we had a good go towards the end.”
 
Shrewsbury Town now await a visit from Chelsea in the last 16. Mourinho can already sniff a third League Cup triumph.


