http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/15/chelsea-southampton-premier-league-match-report

Chelsea 1-1 Southampton | Premier League match report


Apart from a couple of barbs about Graeme Souness and the other pundits José Mourinho sneeringly believes are “paid to wear my suit”, Chelsea were on their best behaviour and wanted everyone to see as much. Mourinho rarely left his dugout. His players kept their distance from the referee even after the borderline decision for Southampton’s penalty and the manager was a model of restraint when he was asked whether Chelsea should have had a spot kick of their own. “You will have to control me,” he said, turning to his press officer in the next seat.
 
On another day it was probably fair to assume there might have been a long diatribe about Chelsea’s perceived injustices. Remember, it was against Southampton in December that Mourinho first went into overdrive about a refereeing conspiracy, trying to convince us there was a “campaign” against his club and eventually copping a £25,000 fine from the Football Association because of it. The penalty Nemanja Matic conceded here will almost certainly be added to his little black book of grievances as will that moment later in the first half when the referee, Mike Dean, missed Dusan Tadic clipping Branislav Ivanovic’s heel when he was in Southampton’s box.
  
 Related: José Mourinho says Arsenal are rivals to Chelsea for Premier League title 
   
All the same, it was a nice change to see Mourinho exercising some restraint despite clearly being frustrated to see his team drop points at home for the third time in four league matches. Chelsea had won the previous 10 and Mourinho’s competitive spirit made it difficult for him to reflect it had still been a profitable weekend. He should not beat himself up too much.
 
Chelsea’s lead at the top of the Premier League has stretched to six points, with a game in hand, and Southampton showed again here why they have been one of the stories of the season.
 
Ronald Koeman’s side excelled during the first half, playing with a mix of high skill and fearlessness. “Why do we have to be afraid?” Southampton’s manager said. “It’s 11 versus 11, so show your qualities.” His players followed the advice and Chelsea had to work exceedingly hard before taking control in the second half, leading to a tense finale when Fraser Forster made a series of fine saves in Southampton’s goal and John Terry had two chances in quick succession during five minutes of stoppage time.
 
Mourinho’s team had taken the lead in the 11th minute when Diego Costa headed in Ivanovic’s cross for his first goal in eight matches but Tadic’s penalty came not long afterwards and for the rest of the first half Southampton played with the kind of enterprise that is usually beyond visiting sides at Stamford Bridge.
 
They did not keep the ball so well in the second half but it would still have been desperately harsh if they had succumbed to that late pressure, no matter how much lingering doubt there was about the penalty.
 
Matic was booked for the challenge on Sadio Mané but his outstretched leg did reach the ball as he and Ivanovic converged on Southampton’s quick, elusive forward. Ivanovic was chasing Mané and if anything it was probably his presence that put Mané off balance. Dean, however, clearly thought it was Matic’s foul.
  
 Related: Chelsea have lost their rhythm, and none more so than Cesc Fàbregas | Dominic Fifield 
   
Koeman had left out his leading scorer, Graziano Pellè, because of the deterioration in the Italian’s performances since Christmas and Shane Long’s indefatigable running was a prominent feature as Southampton dominated until half-time. Nathaniel Clyne and Ryan Bertrand attacked from the full-back positions, Victor Wanyama and Morgan Schneiderlin dovetailed with great expertise in midfield and Mané was always a difficult opponent.
 
Costa’s goal was a throwback to those days earlier in the season when he was expected to score in almost every game. He is not, though, the marauding force we saw in the autumn and early winter. Cesc Fàbregas is struggling to recapture his best form and this was an off-day for Matic, who could feasibly have been sent off for another foul on Mané in the opening moments of the second half. Mourinho removed him not long afterwards.
 
Chelsea certainly took their time working up any real momentum but Eden Hazard came alive in the second half. Koeman accepted afterwards “you need luck” and Chelsea could look back on that moment in the 57th minute when Willian let fly and Costa threw himself at the misdirected shot only for the ball to squirt upwards and flick off the post. Forster excelled in the last half an hour and Southampton defended with great defiance.
 
Man of the match: Morgan Schneiderlin (Southampton)


