http://www.goal.com/en-us/match/swansea-city-vs-tottenham-hotspur/1703811

Dec 14, 2014 12:52:00 PM

The midfielder once again struck late in the game to clinch all three points to down a Swans side which dominated proceedings following Wilfried Bony's second-half equalizer.

Another late Christian Eriksen winner earned Tottenham a dramatic 2-1 victory at Swansea City in the Premier League on Sunday.

The Denmark international struck a last-minute goal in Spurs' 2-1 success at Hull City last month and repeated the feat at a sodden Liberty Stadium.

Eriksen picked up the ball on the edge of the area and placed an accurate finish into the bottom left-hand corner to spark scenes of jubilation among the travelling fans in south Wales.

Spurs had taken an early lead through Harry Kane's 12th goal of the season - a powerful header from Eriksen's delivery.

That setback seemed to spark Swansea into life, and Wilfried Bony missed three first-half chances before eventually finding the equalizer at the start of the second period.

But it was Eriksen and Tottenham who had the final say in the last minute, as the visitor leapfrogged its opponents and went seventh, while Swansea fell to just a second home defeat of the campaign.

Kyle Walker made his first league appearance for Tottenham since March after overcoming a pelvic problem, the right back coming in for Eric Dier from the 0-0 draw with Crystal Palace last weekend.

Swansea showed two changes from their 3-1 defeat at West Ham, Gerhard Tremmel replacing the suspended Lukasz Fabianski in goal and left-back Neil Taylor coming in for Jazz Richards.

Tremmel's first meaningful action was to pick the ball out of his net in the fourth minute after Kane had got up above Angel Rangel to head in Eriksen's right-wing corner.

Hugo Lloris - making his 100th appearance for Spurs - made a smart stop low to his right to keep out Bony's well-struck effort soon afterwards as Swansea went in search of an equaliser.

Bony looked certain to find a leveler in the 21st minute after being played in by Jefferson Montero, but Ben Davies - returning to his former club - got back to make a superb last-ditch challenge and clear the danger.

Spurs were struggling to get to grips with Bony and the Ivory Coast international went close for a third time shortly before the interval.

Neat interplay between Gylfi Sigurdsson and Rangel led to the ball being cut back to the striker, whose first-time effort was deflected behind by Federico Fazio.

Three minutes after the break, Bony and Swansea finally had the equalizer their play deserved.

The forward's initial volley from Wayne Routledge's cross was blocked by Fazio, but he made no mistake with the rebound from close range.

Swansea was in the ascendancy as Ki Sung-yueng flashed a header over the crossbar on the hour and Montero saw a low drive deflected narrowly wide 18 minutes from time.

Despite being on top, the home side almost fell behind for a second time six minutes later when Kane steered a header narrowly wide of the left-hand upright.

And a late winner did arrive in the final minute as Eriksen showed unerring accuracy from the edge of the penalty area to seal all three points for Mauricio Pochettino's men.