http://www.goal.com/en-us/match/leicester-city-vs-tottenham-hotspur/1703845

Dec 26, 2014 11:53:00 AM

Goals from Christian Eriksen and Harry Kane gave Spurs a win over Leicester City.

Leicester remains bottom of the Premier League table as Christian Eriksen's free kick secured a 2-1 win for Tottenham at the King Power Stadium.
Harry Kane gave Spurs a superb start with his third league goal in as many games in the second minute, but the visiting side was unable to pull clear prior to the interval.

Rock-bottom Leicester, which had manager Nigel Pearson serving a one-match touch-line ban for abusing a fan, leveled three minutes after the break through Leonardo Ulloa.

Chances continued to come for Pearson's men thereafter, but they were punished for their wastefulness when Eriksen caught Ben Hamer off guard from a set piece.

Tottenham has now won three league games in succession, while Leicester remains rooted to the foot of the table despite an improved display.

Having failed to win any of its last 12 league matches, Leicester would have hoped for a solid start, yet the club fell behind almost immediately.

Erik Lamela released Nacer Chadli in behind the Leicester defense and the Belgium international rolled a low cross to Kane, who touched the ball away from Wes Morgan before firing past Hamer.

Ulloa – one of two changes for Leicester – struggled to get involved in the opening exchanges, but brought a save out of Hugo Lloris after 18 minutes.

The Argentine striker flicked up a pass from Jeffrey Schlupp and volleyed towards goal from 20 yards, although Tottenham's goalkeeper had no problems tipping it over.

Tottenham, which recalled Danny Rose and Benjamin Stambouli, was posing much more of an attacking threat than the home side and was denied a second goal on two occasions by last-ditch tackles.

On the half hour, Marcin Wasilewski prevented Lamela from converting a tap-in after neat work from Kane and Christian Eriksen, before Paul Konchesky got back just in time to halt Nabil Bentaleb three minutes later.

Leicester should have gone into the break level but Lloris saved well from Riyad Mahrez and, even when the Frenchman was beaten, the post kept out Ulloa's header.

Ulloa was not to be denied early in the second half, though, as a cute flick converted Mahrez's low cross from the right.

Leicester should have been ahead four minutes later, but Mahrez's free kick rattled the frame of the goal from 20 yards, with Lloris a mere spectator.

Leicester was now in the ascendancy and it took a superb save from Lloris to keep the scores level. Schlupp skipped past Kyle Walker but his left-foot drive was tipped wide by the France international.

Eriksen made the home team pay for its profligacy with 20 minutes remaining as he caught Hamer off-guard with a long-range free kick, the Denmark midfielder beating the goalkeeper at his near post.

Leicester pushed for an equalizer with the introduction of Jamie Vardy and Anthony Knockaert, but it was Wes Morgan who went closest to leveling.

However, Lloris was equal to two efforts from the Leicester captain to secure the victory and extend City's winless run in the league to 13 matches.