http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/13/chelsea-hull-premier-league-match-report

Chelsea 2-0 Hull | Premier League match report


This was an ugly win rather prised from stubborn and awkward opponents but, in the end, Chelsea will be unconcerned as to how it was chiselled out. Their three-point advantage at the top of the Premier League is retained, a pristine home record extended and they may actually take heart from the reality that rivals can these days be ground into submission when they cannot be passed off the park.
 
It still felt comfortable enough, secured by an early headed goal from the lively Eden Hazard and a welcome reward after the interval for Diego Costa. The Brazilian-born forward had been relatively blunt of late, struggling with his match sharpness after those hamstring and groin complaints, but he tucked away a neat finish to settle the result. Yet the rest was more of a slog, an occasion illuminated more by Branislav Ivanovic’s muscular running beyond Hull City defenders down the right than flashes of neat invention from the attacking players who have propelled this team to date.
 
José Mourinho said: “We didn’t play especially well, but we played well enough for everybody connected with Chelsea – supporters, players, staff – to be calm because the game was always under control. We never felt really at risk. We have already put in many special performances this season, and today we just had moments of good football, moments of happiness and creativity and dynamism. Just moments. Not for 90 minutes. A good enough performance to win against a difficult team, which is important to say.”
 
The Portuguese went on to suggest some of his players may have spied the fixture congestion ahead and opted to rest up once victory here felt assured. “If they did, they are smart,” he offered although, while the manager was loath to admit it, the suspended Cesc Fàbregas had still been missed. Chelsea’s tempo was rarely as upbeat as normal without the Spaniard conducting play from the middle even once Hull had been reduced to 10 by Tom Huddlestone’s dismissal for an ugly challenge on Filipe Luís.
 
Steve Bruce argued, quite plausibly, that lunge had been born of frustration that the hosts had not been reduced to 10 after Gary Cahill, already cautioned, appeared to dive between David Meyler and Huddlestone in search of a penalty. Chris Foy would book Willian and Costa for “simulation” over the course of the contest, but Cahill escaped to leave the visitors riled.
 
The Hull manager was just as perplexed as to why Mikel John Obi was not penalised for a foul on Sone Aluko in the build-up to Hazard’s opening goal. “We thought it was a free-kick, but if I say what I want to say then I’ll be hauled up in front of the Football Association again and I’ll have to pay the £10,000 fine,” said Bruce, who had suffered that indignity last season. “So I’ll say piss all about it and save my pocket. Excuse my French.”
 
His current Français, Hatem Ben Arfa, might have been useful here had he been fit and available, though his days at Hull appear numbered with the player secured from Newcastle in Paris and apparently hoping his contract is terminated next month.
 
Hull lacked the creation or conviction to damage the league leaders – they have now gone nine games without a win – even if their industry was admirable. Bruce wrote it off as “the story of our season”. The loss of Michael Dawson to a hamstring injury, most likely for up to six weeks, will be damaging.
 
They were pierced twice amid the huff and puff, Hazard soaring between Curtis Davies and Andrew Robertson to connect with Oscar’s cross while Aluko writhed on the turf in the centre circle following Mikel’s challenge. Hazard had previously scored only once in England with his head, against West Bromwich Albion in November 2012, and was elusive throughout following a midweek rest. Mourinho said: “I gave him four days’ holiday with his family to go somewhere he can take his shirt [off] and get some sun. He came back with happiness in his legs.”
 
Costa, too, needed his reward after relatively stodgy recent form. He meandered on to Hazard’s slipped pass to score beyond Allan McGregor with Hull depleted in number and, by then, effectively defeated.


