http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/29/tottenham-brighton-capital-one-cup-match-report

Tottenham 2-0 Brighton | Capital One Cup fourth-round match report


The finish was less extravagant than the one with which Érik Lamela lit up Tottenham Hotspur’s previous midweek cup tie but he might reflect that it was more important. His team had laboured, not for the first time at White Hart Lane, when he was thrust on as a half-time substitute, charged with making the difference against opponents who are struggling in the Championship.
 
Lamela did precisely that. Drifting inside from the left, he demanded the ball loudly, as he tends to do, got it and, in a flash, Brighton &amp; Hove Albion were in trouble. Lamela moved through the gears, swapping passes with Roberto Soldado and slicing into the penalty area. He never looked like blowing the chance on his right foot from 10 yards out.
 
Initially, there had been an uncomfortable sense of déjà vu, when Lamela had been about a minute late in coming on to the field. Tottenham had frozen at the beginning of the second half in the 2-1 home defeat by Newcastle United on Sunday, when they conceded the equaliser six seconds after the restart, and Mauricio Pochettino said he was “angry,” with Lamela.
 
“I got angry because I was focused and I remembered Sunday,” the Tottenham manager said. “We knew [Aaron] Lennon had to come off [with a hamstring problem] and we told Lamela to warm up. He then arrived late into the dressing room and, after analysing set pieces and positions on the pitch, he had to go to the toilet. This was the problem.”
 
But Lamela promptly made light of the issues that Tottenham had endured and a week after his rabona in the 5-1 Europa League rout of Asteras Tripolis, he had the club’s fans dreaming of Wembley. Next up for them in the Capital One Cup quarter-finals is another home tie – against Newcastle. Never mind the defeat on Sunday. They fancy their chances of revenge.
     Érik Lamela gives Spurs the lead in the fourth round Capital One Cup tie against Brighton. Photograph: Michael Zemanek/BPI/Rex  Photograph: Michael Zemanek/BPI/REX    
Tottenham’s progress was not in doubt from the point that Lamela beat Brighton’s 18-year-old debutant goalkeeper, Christian Walton, and the only question seemed to be whether they would add to the scoreline. They did so through Harry Kane, who embellished his man-of-the-moment status in these parts with yet another goal in cup competition.
 
He now has two in the Capital One Cup, to go with his five in the Europa League, three of which came in the Asteras tie. Remarkably he has yet to start (or score) in the Premier League this season. It is fair to say that he is knocking on Pochettino’s door for Sunday’s trip to Aston Villa. The Tottenham fans are certainly championing his cause. The announcement of Kane’s name had drawn the biggest pre-match cheer and the crowd chorused it towards the end of the game.
 
Brighton brought around 4,000 fans on a night when the fine rain hung like a mist and they fired the atmosphere. With Rohan Ince in commanding form in front of the back four, Sami Hyypia’s team had started to look like a tough nut to crack. And they were left to wonder what might have been after the referee, Mark Clattenburg, failed to spot what looked like a handball by the Tottenham right-back, Kyle Naughton, in the 28th minute.
 
A whipped free-kick flicked off Federico Fazio and Naughton did appear to move his arm towards the ball and there was contact before it continued on to Lewis Dunk, whose effort was off-target. Hyypia looked furious at the time but he said afterwards that he had no complaints. This was Clattenburg’s last game before he serves a ban for breaking protocol to attend an Ed Sheeran gig after officiating at West Bromwich Albion on Saturday.
 
Tottenham had started brightly, with Andros Townsend to the fore, but they did not do enough in the first half. Walton emerged with credit, particularly for the low block from Soldado’s shot. Lennon missed chances and Kane could not control Soldado’s chipped cross. The anxiety bubbled. But when he finally got on, Lamela sparked the team.
 
Soldado rattled the crossbar from an angle on 61 minutes and then forced Walton into two reflex saves. From the second, though, Kane reacted quickest to slide the rebound home.
 
“All potential trophies are realistic,” Pochettino said. “This was a good performance. I’m happy for the players because they needed the victory. We created a lot of chances and played well. We are in the quarter-finals of this competition and are in the Europa League. We are happy.”


