http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/26/tottenham-fiorentina-europa-league-match-report

Fiorentina 2-0 Tottenham (agg 3-1) | Europa League last-32 second leg match report


The most disappointing thing for Mauricio Pochettino here, other than exiting the Europa League at the first knockout stage, was that it could have been so different. Tottenham’s first of two crucial games this week will be remembered for a dreadful error by Roberto Soldado and two defensive lapses as much as it will for Fiorentina’s decisiveness in attack, La Viola advancing following a game that, like the first leg, started well for Spurs but ended lamentably.
 
In many ways Pochettino’s selection backfired. He made seven changes and left Harry Kane and Andros Townsend on the bench until the 63rd minute. Hindsight is a wonderful thing, of course, and perhaps it will pay off against Chelsea at Wembley on Sunday but, as the goals flew in from Mario Gómez and Mohamed Salah during a devastating second-half spell for Fiorentina, there was an overwhelming sense that this was an opportunity missed.
 
Ironically their chief tormenter, Salah, is still a Chelsea player, on loan from the west London club as part of the deal in which Juan Cuadrado departed Florence this winter. Pochettino will hope his defenders cope better in the Capital One Cup final but, on this evidence, there are concerns, given that both Fiorentina’s goals emerged after lapses in concentration, despite the excellent finishes.
 
Soldado wasted a glorious chance when one-on-one with Neto, the Brazilian goalkeeper, in the 29th minute – opting to pass when shooting was the better option. His dallying was in marked contrast to the swift fashion with which Gómez and Salah dispatched their chances later in the game.
 
Pochettino, while not singling out Soldado, put it quite simply. “If you don’t score it’s difficult to win games,” said the Spurs coach. “I think in the first half we played very well and created some chances. You need luck, sometimes to score and to win the games. It’s true that in the second half we made some risks, Fiorentina scored and we didn’t score.”
 
Pochettino made ample changes to the side that drew against West Ham last weekend, and Tottenham enjoyed spells of pressure during a first half that will, unfortunately, be remembered for Soldado’s blunder. It was an aberration of indecision and frail confidence, a dreadful effort that would have provided his team with a deserved lead.
           Mauricio Pochettino gives his reaction after his team lost 2-0 to Fiorentina and exited the Europa League    
It was certainly not plain sailing for Tottenham early on yet, despite defensive scares, on the balance of play they were the more dangerous side in the first half. The key moment, though, came after 29 minutes.
 
Soldado, who had been linking up well with his midfield, broke the offside trap following a deft through ball from Érik Lamela. The Viola defence was flat-footed, and the action for a moment slowed as the Spaniard bore down on goal, but instead of shooting Soldado attempted to lay the ball off to Nacer Chadli and Neto claimed with ease.
 
Fiorentina made Tottenham pay and improved vastly in the second half. Nine minutes in and Gómez showed Soldado how one-on-one opportunities should be dispatched. Milan Badelj – who had missed a fine chance of his own just minutes earlier – pounced on a poor touch from Federico Fazio and played in the German forward, who outpaced Ben Davies to race through and slot under Hugo Lloris. It was a clinical strike from a player who has struggled for goals of late, and Vincenzo Montella’s side almost increased their lead soon after.
 
Joaquín dispossessed Lamela in midfield and played in Salah, who again left Davies eating dust, only to be denied by an excellent save from Lloris, the Frenchman blocking with this legs.
 
Spurs were on the rack and the change in momentum prompted a double substitution from Pochettino, Kane and Townsend brought on for Nabil Bentaleb and Chadli. Toni Jiménez, the goalkeeping coach, had already been sent to the stands by the referee as the tie began to ebb away.
 
It was soon all over. Salah picked the ball up on the right touchline in an advanced position and darted inside, playing a one-two with Gómez who flicked the ball back into his path. Salah entered the penalty area and Jan Vertonghen, who had appeared to have quelled the threat, inexplicably failed to clear and granted Salah time to shoot following a terribly cumbersome touch. The Egyptian gladly accepted the invitation and fired into the top corner.
 
Montella, the Fiorentina coach, said: “I think there is great satisfaction, a reward for the work put in during the last weeks.
 
“We are going through to the last 16 and considering we are going through against one of the richest ranked teams, that says a lot. The lads did great, especially when they suffered physically after the first half. I compliment everyone in the squad.”


