http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/28/tottenham-hotspur-limassol-europa-league-match-report

Tottenham Hotspur 3-0 AEL Limassol; agg 5-1 | Europa League qualifying play-off match report


Greeks they are not, but AEL Limassol certainly came bearing gifts. Tottenham Hotspur capitalised on numerous defensive blunders to swat aside their Cypriot visitors and qualify for the oft derided distraction that is the Europa League. Spurs could even afford the luxury of a missed Harry Kane penalty, although the gangly blond persevered to atone for his error and was joined on the scoresheet by Paulinho and Andros Townsend. AEL offered little and would have lost by more but for some late heroics by their substitute goalkeeper, who was short-changed for 85 minutes by comically inept defending.
 
Tottenham’s manager, Mauricio Pochettino, dismissive in his criticism of Uefa’s second-tier club competition when it looked like his Southampton side might qualify for it last season, has clearly been incentivised by the bonus for outright victory in this season’s Europa League: a place at Europe’s top table.
 
“Our immediate challenge is obviously to do our best in every competition we enter and go as far as we can,” he said in his programme notes. “That certainly applies to the Europa League, which now rewards the winners not only with silverware, but also with a place in next season’s Champions League.”
 
With Spurs leading 2-1 from the first leg, this qualifier sprung into life after five minutes, the hosts winning a penalty when AEL’s goalkeeper, Karim Fegrouch, hurtled off his line to send Kyle Naughton sprawling acrobatically. The instigator emerged worse from the collision and after lengthy treatment was removed unconscious on a stretcher, with blood oozing from a head wound and his name in the referee’s notebook.
 
His replacement Pulpo Romero’s first act was to save Kane’s spot-kick – struck meatily down the centre – with a fortuitously flailing left foot. A brace of wayward shots later, the relieved 21-year-old slotted home from just inside the area when Paulinho rolled the ball his way after pouncing on an undercooked back pass from Valentinos Sielis. It was just reward for Tottenham’s first-half dominance, with AEL limited to one long-range pot-shot from Adrián Sardinero.
 
Of the two survivors from Tottenham’s weekend Premier League win over QPR, Younès Kaboul took over the captain’s armband from the goalkeeper Hugo Lloris, who wore it in Larnaca. The central defender Vlad Chiriches returned from injury to make his first start of the season, while the Brazilian midfielder Sandro shuffled dutifully into the shop window. The new Argentinian centre-back Federico Fazio, in from Sevilla, did not play but was presented to a near full house and received a warm White Hart Lane welcome.
 
The tie ended as any sort of competitive concern shortly after half-time, when Spurs capitalised on more defensive largesse. Chiriches mugged the dithering Diallo Guidileye on the edge of the penalty area, then picked out Paulinho who fired low across the goalkeeper to find the corner. Spurs went close to adding to their tally with the move of the match, but Aaron Lennon’s splendid chip in the wake of sublime link-up play from Kane and the always busy Paulinho was cleared off the line by Carlitos. Not long after the hour, Andros Townsend succeeded where Kane had failed, converting coolly from the penalty spot when Edmar stuck a hand out to intercept a Naughton cross.
 
“We played very, very, very well and we are very happy,” said Pochettino, who refused to criticise Kane for his penalty miss when the tie was still in the balance. “That’s football. It’s not important. The important thing is that he didn’t let it affect his performance after. He shows always the character and the personality, he’s a very strong man and a very good player too.” Of Sunday’s imminent Premier League test against Liverpool, Pochettino added: “Every game is different. Now we need to stop and prepare for Sunday. Now we need to focus and prepare for Liverpool, who are a different team to Limassol.”
 
Having vowed to take his team as far as he can in Europe, Pochettino may be alarmed to learn that last season’s Europa League group draw pitted Tottenham against teams from Dagestan, Moldova and as near as makes no difference to the North Pole. The Spurs manager will be hoping the balls in Uefa’s lunchtime draw in Monaco herald the beginning of a less arduous and ultimately more rewarding journey.


