http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/05/burnley-tottenham-hotspur-premier-league-match-report

Burnley 0-0 Tottenham Hotspur | Premier League match report


Harry Kane may have followed in the footsteps of Danny Blanchflower and Dave Mackay but his quest to emulate Gary Lineker continues and a day that provided another landmark in the increasingly remarkable career of Tottenham’s top scorer ended in frustration. Kane’s breakthrough year is ever less likely to culminate in qualification for the Champions League and a sterile stalemate suggested a Spurs team playing their 50th game of the season are running out of steam.
 
While Sean Dyche, the Burnley manager, was typically upbeat, he should also deem it a missed opportunity. His side clambered back above QPR in the table but remain below the dotted line and are running out of chances to extricate themselves from the relegation zone. Like Tottenham they rely on incessant running and did not display the sharpness required to be incisive. What qualified as a heatwave by Burnley’s standards contributed to a lacklustre game. They were sunbathing in the executive boxes, whereas bad weather normally makes Turf Moor an inhospitable place to visit.
  
 Related: Tottenham’s Pochettino: Champions League qualification now difficult task 
   
It amounted to the sort of match that may be remembered more for the teamsheet than anything that actually happened on the pitch. The circled “C” next to Kane’s name showed he joined an illustrious line of Spurs captains, even if he owed his elevation from the ranks to the misfortune of others.
 
Younès Kaboul, the designated club captain, lost his place months ago. The injured Hugo Lloris, who normally wears the armband, and his ill deputy Jan Vertonghen were both sidelined. An inexperienced team contained few obvious candidates for the captaincy. Kane filled in as the leader but no one took on his usual mantle as the goal-getter.
 
Not since Lineker has anyone mustered 30 in a season for Spurs; Kane will surely join an exclusive club but remains rooted on 29 for now. This was that rarity, a match when even the usually ubiquitous Kane was anonymous. He dragged one shot wide but Burnley’s 37-year-old centre-back Michael Duff policed the Premier League’s joint-top scorer rather better than many a more trumpeted talent.
 
Kane’s England Under-21 team-mate Danny Ings was more prominent but, while his efforts bookended the first half, the Tottenham target’s goal drought has now extended to six games. His first opportunity represented his best. Burnley tend to be swift starters and Spurs were caught out by the speed of their pressing. England’s newest debutant Ryan Mason was robbed by George Boyd, who released Ings, only for Burnley’s top scorer to direct his shot straight at Michel Vorm. Some 40 minutes later, the Dutchman flung himself to his left to tip Ings’ dipping effort over the bar.
 
Vorm also averted embarrassment when Ings’ up-and-under threatened to provide a goal from the corner flag, diverting it away. The signing from Swansea, who was beaten three times as a replacement after Lloris was carried off against Leicester, marked a belated first league start for Tottenham with a clean sheet.
 
As a previously porous side were without their first-choice goalkeeper and centre-back, in Vertonghen, and were forced into a defensive reshuffle when Kyle Walker sprained his ankle, that may represent progress. Vlad Chiriches, who flourished in two positions, was a stand-in who stood up to the challenge. Yet Spurs’ shut-out could say more about Burnley, who have struck only once in five games. Boyd’s winner against Manchester City was wonderful but they are failing to score the scrappier goals teams in their predicament tend to require and Boyd headed narrowly wide in stoppage time when Spurs were unsettled by a long throw.
 
Spurs were largely limited to long-range shots as Burnley defended the penalty box doggedly. Their goalkeeper Tom Heaton was only called into action twice, holding 20-yard efforts from Nacer Chadli and Christian Eriksen, both at the second attempt.
  
 Related: Tactical indecision results in deadlock between Burnley and Spurs 
   
While Tottenham possessed neither invention nor incision, Andros Townsend, England’s catalytic substitute in Turin, surfaced only for a seven-minute cameo. He was overlooked first when Paulinho started and then when the ineffectual Erik Lamela was introduced. The Brazilian was granted just his second league start of the season, but spurned the chance to prove Mauricio Pochettino wrong for marginalising him. His afternoon was notable for a shot that skewed off the wrong side of his foot in a manner that scarcely suggested he had played in a World Cup semi-final.
 
If the failings of expensive imports have been camouflaged by the homegrown favourite, this may have illustrated the extent to which Kane has carried Tottenham this season. When he had an off-day, so did they.
 
Both Eriksen and Eric Dier had half-chances to deliver a decider, but neither even hit the target. Meanwhile Burnley’s search for a winner entailed sending on Lukas Jutkiewicz, a forward who had never scored for the club. Predictably, he has still not.
 
Man of the match Kieran Trippier (Burnley)


