http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/25/nigel-pearson-leicester-fa-cup-premier-league-tottenham

Nigel Pearson: Leicester need to channel FA Cup creativity into league form


 Nigel Pearson is a realist. The Leicester City manager is unlikely to get carried away when it comes to measuring his team’s chance of survival but even he conceded that the circumstances in which they came from behind to win this tie could be a springboard for their attempts to stay afloat in the Premier League.
 
It was a game that both managers agreed could have gone either way but Jeffrey Schlupp’s injury-time winner, an unorthodox left-foot finish that crept over the mistimed dive of Michel Vorm, not only gave Leicester something to cheer but has provided them with a renewed energy for the battle ahead. For Pearson, it is now about channelling that into the Premier League.
 
“We have to take days like today into the league programme. I’m not going to change my mind – our priority was always going to be staying in the Premier League this season – but when you’ve been out of form in terms of results, wins like this become more important. I’m just pleased that the players’ performance has been rewarded. It could have been won by either side but we managed to do it.
 
“We’ve shown here and at places like Liverpool that we can be a threat playing against these teams. The amount of technical ability they have at times is very difficult to deal with but what we can say is that we showed lots of different qualities.”
 
The surge in optimism could quickly be tempered by a look at their next three fixtures. A trip to Old Trafford awaits on Saturday before the visit of Crystal Palace and then a midweek trip to Arsenal. They must also take on Chelsea in late February.
 
Pearson added: “We’ve got to play them some time and they are the games we have aspired to play for a decade. There’s nothing we can do but look forward to being positive. The players have worked exceptionally hard to get where they are. When you see the fixtures coming along you have to be confident about it.”
 
It could be argued that Leicester are better suited to playing away from home. They were reduced to counterattacking for large spells here, most effectively from Schlupp on the left wing, and had to defend resiliently without possession.
 
“We have the players who are available and in most games we try to be creative. We try to play our way, that suits the players we have,” Pearson said. “They are human beings and will not play at the top of their level every time they play.
 
“We feel we don’t have as many points as our performances have warranted but we’ve got what we’ve got. The players are learning. I’d love the mediocrity of being mid-table but we are where we are and I know what we have at our disposal. It is important we play as we play and not worry about how others perceive us.”
 
At 42, Mark Schwarzer became the oldest player to appear for Leicester. Pearson believes the goalkeeper, who was a team-mate of his at Middlesbrough, will bring a calming influence to the dressing room.
 
The only thing to get past Schwarzer all afternoon was Andros Townsend’s first-half penalty and the Australian made a succession of solid saves when one behind to keep Leicester in the game before Leonardo Ulloa’s equaliser seven minutes from time rattled Spurs.
 
“Mark will have a very positive influence in the dressing room,” Pearson said of the debutant. “He’s been there and done it and has vast experience. He’s a very calm character and has strong views on almost everything. I’m very pleased to have him.
 
“With our distribution – in terms of speeding it up and slowing it down – his organisation and communication is excellent but you would expect that from a player with that experience. He’s still performing very well at a very high level.”
 
Man of the match Jeffrey Schlupp (Leicester)


