http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/01/mauricio-pochettino-tottenham-harry-kane-west-brom

Mauricio Pochettino backs Tottenham’s Harry Kane to hit 30-goal mark


Harry Kane was permitted only a couple of quick-fire questions but just like his match-winning performance , that was all it took: two chances, both dispatched with clinical professionalism. His answers are out there on the pitch and in the scoring charts for all to see.
 
The 21-year-old’s confidence and conversion rate are so high, not to mention his technical excellence and energetic attitude, and with Kane having doubled his pre-season target of 10 goals within two-thirds of the campaign, it is no wonder the manager, Mauricio Pochettino, has no fear in suggesting he aims to treble it by May.
 
Kane himself, the Premier League’s leading scorer in all competitions, is refusing to publicise how high he feels he can finish in the goalscorers’ parade or Tottenham Hotspur in the Premier League. Why let anything disrupt the rhythm and focus?
 
“I set myself [a target to score] 10 goals at the start and then 20 after that,” the England contender said. “I’m there now. I will set myself another little target in my head that I will try and get to, and do it as quickly as possible hopefully. There are still a lot of games to go and I’m feeling confident on the pitch at the minute.”
 
Similarly, with Spurs sitting two points off the top four after six league wins in eight, before Saturday’s derby with Arsenal, between the teams placed fifth and sixth, Kane has no need to set any hares running with his comments. “There is still a long way to go, plenty of games to play,” he said. “We just need to keep focused on that. We are still in a lot of competitions. Come the end of the season we will see where we are.
 
“It is probably the biggest game of the season so far, playing Arsenal at home. It is big for the fans, the players, the club – everyone who is involved. We have a week now to rest so we are really looking forward to it.”
 
Pochettino said he has not been surprised by what Kane has achieved so far this season. “No, because I never put a ceiling on any player,” the manager said. “If he scores 20, why not 30? Always he needs the chance to play. I never put the target to my players. If you have potential and can improve it is only up to you.
 
“The problem arrives when the player believes he is ‘done’ and can’t improve. It is important he keeps this mentality that he is hungry every day to improve and keep going forward.”
 
In this respect Christian Eriksen is a prime role model, Pochettino emphasising how his playmaker regularly practises his deadball deliveries. It was the Dane’s free-kick, his 11th goal of the season making him the top-scoring midfielder in the Premier League, that set up Spurs, Capital One Cup finalists and in the last 32 of the Europa League, for a victory that Pochettino ranked among his team’s best of the season. And what a season it is promising to be.
 
Kane’s two goals, a rapidly dispatched low shot after cutting inside Andre Wisdom and a calm penalty after Joleon Lescott handled Kyle Walker’s cross, sandwiched what could have been a brave comeback by West Bromwich Albion had it not been for Hugo Lloris’s brilliant saves from James Morrison and Claudio Yacob.
 
Craig Dawson and Craig Gardner also struck the woodwork for West Brom who, losing for the first time under Tony Pulis, were undone by their slow start – or, to be fair, Tottenham’s electric start.
 
Albion’s new manager would like a new left-back and a target man before the transfer window shuts. “I’m not spinning as many plates as usual,” he said, “but if they drop for us I’ll be very pleased.”
 
Man of the match Christian Eriksen (Tottenham)


