http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/25/brendan-rodgers-daniel-sturridge-liverpool-everton

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers unsure if Daniel Sturridge will start derby


Brendan Rodgers has described Liverpool’s early season performances as “broken” and has doubts over whether Daniel Sturridge can start the attempted repair against Everton.
 
The Liverpool manager has been without his leading striker for the past four matches due to a thigh injury sustained during England training.
 
Rodgers had been hopeful Sturridge would be back in first-team training earlier this week but the forward has yet to resume full training ahead of the 223rd Merseyside derby at Anfield. The 25-year-old will be given every opportunity to prove his fitness before Saturday’s early kick off but, as with the 3-3 draw at Goodison Park last season, may not be risked from the start due to a lack of match fitness.
 
“We’ll assess Daniel and a number of others nearer the time but if he doesn’t make it he won’t be far off after that,” said Rodgers. “He responds well to treatment and it’s gone well, but there are still a couple of days to go before the game. The important thing is he is near to fitness. He certainly won’t be match-fit, he hasn’t played for a few weeks, but it’ll be great to have him back because he is a wonderful player for us and a great reference for our team at the top of the field.”
 
Liverpool have missed Sturridge’s finishing, pace and movement this month, losing their two Premier League matches without him, and Rodgers admitted the team’s fluency has been ruptured by the high turnover of players this summer.
 
“At this moment in time we are refocusing and reintroducing the principles into our game that brought the win ratio we’ve had in the last 18 months,” he admitted. “Apart from the Tottenham game we have moved away a bit from that. Our game is based on a fast pressing game and a real high intensity and also the speed of our football.
 
“We put a lot of hard work in during the first six months to a year that we were here and a lot of those processes became natural and then the consequence of that is winning. When you introduce a raft of new players and lose a core of players that’s obviously a factor and then it becomes a little bit broken. That’s how our game has looked for me for a big part of the season.”
 
Responsibility will fall again to Mario Balotelli should Sturridge be unable to start the derby and Rodgers believes the Italy international could be world class providing he finds consistency in his game. The Liverpool manager explained: “I think Mario is potentially world class.
 
World class is about being at the highest level consistently, being at that level in your game consistently. That’s what takes you there.
 
“Luis Suárez elevated himself, that was clear. He wasn’t world class when he came in but when he left to go to Barcelona he had put himself in that bracket because of his consistency in scoring goals and keeping his performance level high. You can’t compare Suárez and Mario, but Mario is coming in as an international striker and he has the experience. He’s got a lot of experience for 24 so for him it is about being quality consistently.
 
That is what can elevate him to that level.”


