http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/16/schalke-chelsea-champions-league

Schalke’s slow start leaves squad doubting themselves for Chelsea


Ralf Fährmann had summed up life at Schalke rather neatly before departing Borussia Park on Saturday evening. The Royal Blues’ goalkeeper had been one of the few visiting players to offer up a vaguely presentable performance as they gave in meekly to Mönchengladbach, their Bundesliga campaign having already adopted an air of farce. Fährmann did at least have the consolation of an evening in with his girlfriend, the former Miss Germany Henriette Hömke, but as he trudged through the mixed zone, his team’s toils had darkened even his mood. “It’s going to be a shit night,” he grumbled.
 
These are troubled times at Schalke. Their first three league games have yielded a solitary point, fortunately if inappropriately enough earned against Bayern Munich, to cast them into the relegation zone of the fledgling table. They had been just as slow off the mark last term, too, but throw in the fact they have also been knocked out of the League Cup by Dynamo Dresden of the third tier and this is actually their worst start to a season in 46 years.
 
Confidence is drained, senior players increasingly vocal in their dissatisfaction at the team’s lack of progress, and now they must visit Chelsea: Premier League leaders, scorers of 15 goals in four games to date. Jens Keller and his team arrived in London on Tuesday with a sense of dread of what might await.
 
This is a club in a state of shock, memories of the relatively productive run-in to last season fading by the week. Keller’s side had recovered from the maulings suffered at the hands of Real Madrid and Bayern – 6-1 in Gelsenkirchen on 26 February and 5-1 in the Allianz Arena four days later – to lose only two of their last 11 league games and finish comfortably in third place.
 
There had been optimism about the campaign ahead. Yet the first few weeks of the new season have exposed frailty within an injury-ravaged squad, and prompted many to question why more efforts were not made to add more steel in central defence and defensive midfield over the summer. The same arguments often used when it comes to Arsenal appear to apply to Schalke. Kyriakos Papadopoulos, the Greece centre-back whose impact last season was badly limited by injury, was even loaned to Bayer Leverkusen. Those who remain are brittle.
 
At Mönchengladbach on Saturday Keller found himself without eight senior players – Felipe Santana, Sead Kolasinac, Joël Matip, Jan Kirchhoff, Jefferson Farfán, Atsuto Uchida, Leon Goretzka, Marcel Sobottka – through injury. Julian Draxler and Klaas-Jan Huntelaar, who had been suffering from flu for a fortnight, were only able to contribute as second-half substitutes, while another youngster suffering from sickness, Max Meyer, was unused. Against Chelsea, Schalke may also have to play without their captain, Benedikt Höwedes, who has a hip injury.
 
A quartet of fringe players filled in awkwardly and out of position. It should not have come as a huge surprise when they sunk without trace. Roman Neustädter and Marco Höger were ponderous in central midfield, and Kevin-Prince Boateng becalmed in attack. “We have struggled to cope with the loss of so many key players,” said Keller in the aftermath. “We had four players out there today who had not played for months. And they were still clearly lacking match fitness.”
 
The head coach is starting to feel vulnerable, unnerved at rumoured interest in the former Mainz coach Thomas Tuchel, who quit in May. He has entered the last year of his contract, a precarious situation which appears to be contributing to the sense of unease at the club.
 
Whether he truly commands the respect and confidence of an increasingly frustrated dressing room is open to question. The Switzerland midfielder Tranquillo Barnetta was an unused substitute on Saturday with a message on his official Facebook page, posted just before kick-off, reading: “3 Wechsel, kein Quillo! Na dann: hopp Gladbach” (“Three changes, no Quilo! Well then: Go Gladbach”). He later claimed a friend had gained access to his mobile without consent to tap in the message, but it remained on screen while his team-mates surrendered out on the turf. That loss was a weak display, with little pace or appetite, and a lack of concentration born of shattered confidence.
 
Certainly, the post-match murmurings among the defeated did not suggest faith is retained in the management. Fährmann had followed up his world weary assessment of the fall-out by claiming the injuries should not constitute a valid excuse at a club who have finished in the Bundesliga’s top four in each of the past three seasons and were Champions League semi-finalists the year before that.
 
“We should have the squad to cope,” he said. “It’s too easy to say it’s all just down to the fact so many players are absent. We knew Gladbach would try and hit us on the counterattack, but we still just let them.” Huntelaar suggested the home side “could have scored 10”.
 
“We have to change something, pull together as a team and address the mistakes we keep making or this is going to be a very long, difficult season,” he added. “We have to come up with a plan.”
 
Those comments had the sporting director, Horst Heldt, furiously denying the side had lacked a tactical gameplan, or that there was any underlying discord within the squad. “We need to keep a sense of perspective, and to hold our nerve,” he added to leave Höwedes, to muster something akin to a rallying cry. “Each one of us has to look himself in the mirror and ask whether he has given everything for the team,” said the defender. “One point from three games, and out of the Cup … there’s no hiding that this has been a poor start. We’ve fallen well below the standards we set ourselves.”
 
The problem is there will be no hiding place against Chelsea either. The London club scored three home and away against these opponents last season but have now been bolstered by Diego Costa and Loïc Rémy, Cesc Fábregas and the return of Didier Drogba. Keller had eventually restored his side’s poise to progress into the knock-out phase at Basel’s expense. With each defeat, the prospect of him mustering a repeat amid this early-season crisis grows ever more doubtful.


