http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/27/liverpool-luis-suarez-champions-league-manchester-city-chelsea-arsenal

Liverpool hope to avoid reunion with Luis Suárez in Champions League


Liverpool will be hoping to avoid Manchester City’s recent trials in the Champions League and a swift reunion with Luis Suárez when the draw for the group stage takes place in Monaco on Thursday.
 
City, Chelsea, Liverpool and Arsenal will discover their fate at the Grimaldi Forum from 4.45pm (BST), with Brendan Rodgers’ team facing potentially the toughest draw of the Premier League’s representatives among the European elite.
 
Rodgers guided Liverpool back into the Champions League after a four-year absence last season but their Uefa coefficient based on the past five years has placed the Anfield club in pot three in the draw, and at risk of a daunting reintroduction to the competition.
 
The European champions, Real Madrid, the Spanish champions, Atlético Madrid, the German champions, Bayern Munich, and Suárez’s Barcelona are all possible opponents for Liverpool in pot one. Suárez, who joined Barcelona from Liverpool for £75m this summer, is suspended for the first three group matches of this season’s Champions League due to the four-month ban he received for biting Giorgio Chiellini at the World Cup, but would be available for the teams’ second encounter.
 
The big-spending Paris Saint-Germain, the Italian champions Juventus, Borussia Dortmund and Shakhtar Donetsk, with all the logistical problems a game against Ukrainian opposition would entail, lurk in pot two, with Roma and Radamel Falcao’s Monaco the stand-out teams in pot four. Having witnessed the problems a lower Uefa coefficient has caused City for the past three seasons, Liverpool would have few complaints with a group comprising Porto, Basel and Celtic’s second Champions League conquerors of the season, Maribor.
 
City are in pot two for the draw and should land an easier group than in recent campaigns, when their lower coefficient resulted in a group containing Bayern Munich, Napoli and Villarreal in 2011-12, and Real Madrid, Borussia Dortmund and Ajax in 2012-13. Last season brought qualification from a group made up of Bayern, CSKA Moscow and Viktoria Plzen, only for their second-placed finish to result in a last-16 meeting and exit against Barcelona.
 
Pablo Zabaleta hopes the higher seeding will finally help Manuel Pellegrini’s side make a greater impact on the Champions League. The City defender said: “We know we are Manchester City and have a strong squad to play against the best teams in Europe, so we will see the draw and this time if we have a little bit more luck than the last few years.
 
“We were in the group of death and it has always been tough for us in the Champions League – but it is a competition we are looking forward to and hopefully we can do better. The rest of the teams see Manchester City as a tough team to have in the group and I think that is the most important thing for us.”
 
Chelsea and Arsenal, who confirmed their place in the draw with Wednesday’s 1-0 home win over Besiktas in the second leg of their play-off, are in pot one and will avoid the aforementioned European heavyweights plus Benfica and Porto, who qualified with a 2-0 play-off defeat (3-0 on aggregate) of Lille on Tuesday.
 
At the draw in Monaco 32 teams will be placed into eight groups of four. The English clubs cannot be drawn into the same group as each other and as in previous seasons, the top two in each group will qualify for the knockout stages of the Champions League and the third-placed side go into the knockout stages of the Europa League. The draw for the group stage of the Europa League takes place at noon (BST) on Friday.
 Champions League qualifiers: 
Pot 1
 
Real Madrid Spain
 
Barcelona Spain
 
Bayern Munich Germany
 
Chelsea England
 
Benfica Portugal
 
Atlético Madrid Spain
 
Arsenal England
 
Porto Portugal
 
Pot 2
 
Schalke Germany
 
Borussia Dortmund Germany
 
Juventus Italy
 
Paris Saint-Germain France
 
Shakhtar Donetsk Ukraine
 
Basel Switzerland
 
Zenit St Petersburg Russia
 
Manchester City England
 
Pot 3
 
Bayer Leverkusen Germany
 
Olympiakos Greece
 
CSKA Moscow Russia
 
Ajax Netherlands
 
Liverpool England
 
Sporting Lisbon Portugal
 
Galatasaray Turkey
 
Athletic Bilbao Spain
 
Pot 4
 
Anderlecht Belgium
 
Roma Italy
 
L Razgrad Bul
 
Apoel Cyprus
 
Bate Borisov Belarus
 
Maribor Slovenia
 
Monaco France
 
Malmo Sweden


