http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/27/brendan-rodgers-liverpool-mario-balotelli

Brendan Rodgers rules out move away from Liverpool for Mario Balotelli


Brendan Rodgers has ruled out the possibility of Mario Balotelli returning to Italy on loan in the new year and insisted Liverpool can still look forward to an exciting second half of the season.
 
Balotelli was an unused substitute in Liverpool’s win at Burnley on Boxing Day and on Saturday La Gazzetta dello Sport suggested loan interest from Internazionale, though Rodgers confirmed he was not planning to release anyone. “It is not something I have even thought about, to be honest,” the Liverpool manager said. “We have had a lot of games this season and a lot of competitions and at this moment the key for me is trying to keep this squad together.”
 
Victory at Turf Moor moved Liverpool to seven points from fourth place, a gap Rodgers believes is bridgeable. “Our objectives are still very much the same as they were at the start of the season, we want to finish in the top four,” he said. “We are seven points off that but we know those points can be whittled away very quickly.
 
“We know that we will be much better in the second part of the season as long as we keep the momentum going. That’s what has happened in each of my two seasons here. We’ve got better and better as the season has gone on. The idea at the start of this season was to do well in the cup competitions as well, to try and win a trophy. In terms of the top four the challenge this season was always going to be greater than last, but we are a team that wants to win trophies as well.”
 
Liverpool are in the last four of the Capital One Cup, with a two-legged semi-final to come against Chelsea, and will compete in the Europa League as well as the FA Cup. “If we can win some silverware this season it would be another step forward for us,” Rodgers said. “It’s been well documented how difficult the first part of the season has been for us, but we can look forward to an exciting second half and we would like something to show for the progress we are making.”
 
Liverpool face Swansea on Monday with Simon Mignolet back in goal following injury to Brad Jones, and Raheem Sterling continuing as a makeshift centre-forward. He might not be a natural No9, as Rodgers explained, but his strike record in the league is better than Balotelli’s.
 
“Raheem is a natural winger, but he can score goals as well as create them,” Rodgers said. “His job at the moment is to do both, and he is getting better at the scoring part. Some players are born goalscorers, it’s all they do and all they want to do, but others develop goalscoring ability over the course of their careers. Raheem was probably worth between 10 and 15 goals a season last year, but I think those numbers will improve as his career goes on. He’s got that little extra composure now, he has been working on his finishing. He is going to miss some chances, but he only had the one at Burnley and he took it.”
 
Rodgers is still planning to rest Sterling at some point in the season, wary of asking too much too soon of a player who has only just turned 20, though he recognises that even before being asked to provide the main goal threat the England international was becoming invaluable to the side. “He plays without fear, his movement and pace acts as a real catalyst for this team,” he said.
 
“Anyone with Raheem’s pace will always stretch opponents, make defenders think. To have that pace in the team is very important for us to function well. I’m delighted with his progress. The higher he goes as a player, the more criticism he will have to deal with too, but that’s all part of the dance. You can’t hide his talent, he is still very young and his enthusiasm shines through.”


