http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/20/karl-henry-qpr-liverpool

Karl Henry sees the positives in QPR’s late defeat to Liverpool


Karl Henry believes that the spirit shown by Queens Park Rangers in Sunday’s 3-2 defeat to Liverpool proves that their players remain fully behind Harry Redknapp despite their disappointing start to the season.
 
Redknapp’s future as QPR’s manager has been questioned as a result of their recent poor form and his position came under scrutiny in the week leading up to the visit of Liverpool. Yet QPR played as if they had a point to prove, outplaying Brendan Rodgers’s side for long periods, and while a third successive defeat kept them rooted to the bottom of the table, Henry was encouraged by their battling performance.
 
“We are fighting for Harry, but we’re also fighting for ourselves and the club,” the QPR midfielder said. “It’s a good job that we have here. It’s well documented that footballers get paid well, we know the situation we’re in and we’re giving it everything.
 
“Any suggestion that we’re not, we’re not happy about. I felt we gave a good account of ourselves on that front, but it’s all in vain.
 
There could be no complaints about the way that QPR took the game to Liverpool and it looked like they had done enough to earn a precious point after Eduardo Vargas twice equalised in the dying stages. However the crushing blow of Steven Caulker’s 95th-minute own goal was still to come and Henry admitted that QPR’s naivety cost them.
 
“Harry was not happy,” Henry said. “He was shouting at us, of course, we threw it away. It was naive from us, unprofessional. It can’t happen. Someone said in the dressing room that it wouldn’t have even happened in an Under-11s game. The goals we conceded were shocking.
 
“How were we unprofessional? Like with the first goal. They take a quick free-kick and we were asleep. It was ridiculous. Then having them break on us for the second goal, running out of their box quicker than we did. You cross the ball and it drops in their box and it’s not possible that they have four or five bodies in our box and we’re not with them. That shouldn’t be possible.
 
“You get to 2-2 late on in the game - you don’t concede. But we dropped the free-kick short rather than run it in the stand or making it sure it’s long, in the corner, somewhere else.
 
“Everyone in the dressing room was really disappointed afterwards. We were extremely disappointed in ourselves – we let ourselves down. We played well for large parts of the game, to come in with no points is a joke. But we only have ourselves to blame.”
 
One positive for QPR was seeing Vargas score his first goals in English football following the Chilean’s season-long loan from Napoli. “Eduardo is that Sergio Agüero, Luis Suárez type player and hopefully he can continue in that form,” Henry said. “He’s a nuisance when he comes on. He’s small and powerful, he’s got goals in him.
 
“He’s been very good in training. I don’t think it will take him long to adapt at all. He works hard. The one thing that can catch some players out when they come from abroad is how hard you need to work in the English game, especially in a team like QPR where you have to outwork the opposition. He has had no problems in that respect and his quality is there for all to see.”
 
Yet Vargas’s heroics counted for little in the end. “We needed to show our fans that we care and we know what’s at stake, what the position is we’re in,” Henry said. “We thought we did that. People were dying for the cause so to throw it away at the end was ridiculous.”


