http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/18/chelsea-burnley-premier-league-cesc-fabregas-diego-costa

Five Chelsea talking points from their victory at Burnley | Conrad Leach

1) Courtois is Chelsea’s No1 
José Mourinho has had the decision over who to pick as Chelsea’s first-choice goalkeeper hanging over him all summer. He couldn’t be accused of hurrying the decision, as he left it until Monday morning to make up his mind. That was when he informed Thibaut Courtois that he would play, and that Petr Cech, the club’s first-choice for a decade, would be on the bench. It was a logical choice, not least because Courtois is 22, and won the Spanish league last season with Atlético Madrid. Cech is 32 and makes mistakes more frequently than in his peak years from 2004-10.
 2) Fernando Torres is history 
One former Atlético Madrid forward – Diego Costa – has replaced another, Fernando Torres. Mourinho was forced to fumble around last season, using Torres, even though he has clearly been past his best for three years, and then trying Samuel Eto’o, or, in extremis, Demba Ba. They all scored goals, some even came in important games, but you knew that Mourinho was not convinced. Ba and Eto’o were released in the summer and Diego Costa was signed for £32m, after what seemed like a year of courtship. Torres sat on the bench on Mondayand saw Costa, who had a poor World Cup for Spain, score after 16 minutes. Given his awful time in Brazil that must have felt like a huge relief. The Capital One Cup and dead rubber Champions League games in eastern Europe beckon for Torres.
 3) Fábregas can slot into Lampard’s role 
Cesc Fábregas was not wanted back by Arsenal this summer. That was Chelsea’s gain and the Gunners’ loss. With his Premier League experience and three years learning from Xavi, Andrés Iniesta and Lionel Messi at Barcelona, Fábregas was only going to come back to England as a better player. Gary Neville, on Sky, said before this game that Mourinho brought Fábregas in to replace Frank Lampard, who provided so many goals and assists in 13 years at Chelsea. Neville also said Fábregas was the man to “change games”. His pass to André Schürrle was exquisite, for Chelsea’s second goal, and his intelligent running and passing will take this side to a higher level than last season. He started alongside Nemanja Matic in front of the back four, but his brief is to move upfield and connect with the triumvirate in front of him. It is a role he will perform with ease.
 4) Defence will become more balanced 
In the second half of last season, Mourinho played his right-back, César Azpilicueta, over at left-back, because he could no longer trust Ashley Cole. The Spain defender was again on the left last night, but once Filipe Luís, signed from Atlético Madrid last month, has gained full fitness, the Brazilian will slot in to that position. He had an excellent season last year as part of the team that won La Liga and reached the final of the Champions League yet was strangely omitted from Brazil’s World Cup squad. Azpilicueta can then move to the right, leaving Branislav Ivanovic to fight it out for one of the berths in central defence.
 5) Can they park the bus? 
With Fábregas in central midfield, Oscar, Eden Hazard and Schürrle higher up and Costa as the lone forward, goals should not be a problem. But this team will face greater tests than last night and there is a side to Mourinho, pictured left, that sometimes loves just to kill a game and then strike on the counter-attack. It worked perfectly last season away against Manchester City and Liverpool, as they won both those fixtures. But with this refreshed lineup, he is almost duty-bound to go for goals from the outset in every game. Will he do it against the clubs with which Chelsea will fight for the league title? If he does, then this will surely be the most entertaining Chelsea team in history.


