http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/09/football-transfer-rumour-mill-glen-johnson-liverpool-juventus

Football transfer rumours: Juventus to sign Liverpool’s Glen Johnson?


Italy is fast becoming a safe haven for England’s full-backs. Ashley Cole couldn’t get a look in at Chelsea last season and jumped ship to Roma in the summer. He’s looking right at home (even if, at the age of 33, he hasn’t got the hang of the suit-and-tie thing they’ve got going on over there). Micah Richards packed some last-minute luggage and made haste to Fiorentina after hearing they were actually willing to let him on a competitive football pitch. Now Glen Johnson is considering a switch to Juventus, much to the dismay of many Liverpool fans.
 
Johnson is out of contract club in the summer, but instead of leaving Liverpool on a free, could be sold on the cheap in January, with the manager Brendan Rodgers reportedly keen to get his £110,000-a-week wages off the books. With Alberto Moreno emerging as first-choice at left-back, Javi Manquillo at right-back, and with Jon Flanagan set to return from injury, Johnson could already be considered surplus to requirements.
 
Nigel de Jong also doesn’t want to leave Italia, and has turned his nose up at Louis van Gaal’s Oranje revolution/Manchester United’s start to the season, insisting that he’d rather carry on swilling red wine with Pippo Inzaghi at his current club Milan. They haven’t had much luck tempting Juan Cuadrado from Fiorentina either, he’s set to sign a new contract with La Viola.
 
If you thought the Rumour Mill was putting it’s feet up after a busy August, think again! There’s always free transfers people! Last week we brought you Andrew Johnson’s messianic return to Crystal Palace last week – whammy! – this time around we’re serving up Víctor Valdés, who is poised to join Rodgers and co on Merseyside – Kaboom!
 
Valdés, who is a free agent having ran down his contract with Barcelona, is currently sidelined as he recovers from cruciate ligament damage. He is thought to be nearing full fitness though, and could undergo a medical as early as next month, with Liverpool keen to add competition to their current No1, Simon Mignolet.
 
Queens Park Rangers could also move for freebie Gaby Mudingayi – the Belgian midfielder is available for £0 after being released by Internazionale.
 
Meanwhile, Blackburn and Bolton are fighting it out for the loan signature of Hull’s Harry Maguire while West Ham could return for Stuttgart’s Vedad Ibisevic, after seeing a bid rejected for him in the summer. “I stayed, but you never know. If a good offer comes in, I may leave,” said Ibisevic. “Stuttgart has made some changes and the goal is a mid-table position. I have bigger ambitions [than that] so that is why I say I may yet leave,” he said, without realising that a mid-table finish with West Ham is the very most he could hope for in England.


