http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/10/football-transfer-rumours-dani-alves-manchester-united-liverpool-chelsea-barcelona-

Football transfer rumours: Dani Alves to Manchester United or Liverpool?


Don’t ever let anyone tell you that cartoons are just for children. Cartoons teach us so very many valuable lessons about life, from tips for catching a mischievous mouse (simply paint a mouse hole on the skirting board, wait for him to run into it thinking it’s a genuine mouse hole, then collect what remains of your prey), to the best way of stopping someone from shooting you (simply place your finger/a cork/a bit of cloth in the end of the gun, then giggle as it splits like a banana skin) to the knowledge that you should never buy anything from Acme, particularly sticks of dynamite, because they’re rubbish.
 
In cartoons, when there was a big scuffle about something, it would quickly turn into a cloud of limbs and dust, from which one would eventually emerge with the prize, quite possibly while the scrap was still continuing. It would of course be much funnier at this point if there were only two involved in the fight, and one stepped out of the cloud for a moment, possibly for a spot of light refreshment, before rejoining the fray.
 
We mention this because it looks like a cartoon scrap is about to break out for one Dani Alves. The Brazilian ‘full-back’ is out of contract at the end of this season, and new big dog at the Nou Camp Luis Enrique isn’t right keen to keep him on for longer than that, with young upstarts like Martin Montoya and Douglas ready to usurp him.
 
Thus, such luminaries as Liverpool, Manchester United, Manchester City, Juventus, Paris St Germain, Accrington Stanley, Total Network Solutions and Harchester United fancy signing the old boy up, although if the Rumour Mill was in charge, we’d probably insist that he has a proper haircut before he signed a thing. He looks like an extra from Mad Max.
 
You’ll notice that Arsenal were missing from that list of the world’s finest football clubs chasing a Barcelona player, but don’t worry, they’re still sniffing around one of them. And typically for Arsenal, the man in question is at the other end of the age scale – specifically, it’s young midfielder Sergi Samper, dubbed by no less a source than the Metro as ‘the new Cesc Fabregas’.
 
Apparently Samper has a clause in his contract allowing him to do one for the sum of £9.6million, Arsenal hoping he will join the likes of Fran Merida in making a successful switch between Cataluyna and North London. Of course as Arsenal well know if a team triggers a player’s release clause, he will magically appear at their doorstep, like they’ve been transported by teleporter in the manner of Mike Teavee. Hopefully he won’t be shrunk to miniature size and have to be sent to the gum-stretching room, mind.
 
In news of a player not moving anywhere, attention turns to Morgan Schneiderlin, who reckons he had a deal all lined-up with a team “not in the Champions League”, which could be anyone from Manchester United to Alfreton Town (although it’s probably Tottenham), but was blocked from moving by Southampton.
 
One of the reasons that people don’t like Chelsea is that they simply won’t let anyone else have nice things. Although, in their defence, while they do buy all the nice things, they do then lend them out to littler boys to have a go with for a bit. Add to that list Aston Villa, who rather like having a good young player like Jack Grealish around, but Chelsea want to rip him cruelly from their grasp, presumably only so they can send him on a glorified gap year to Vitesse Arnhem. That make it just the 27 Chelsea players on loan, then.
 
In a similar category is Valencia striker Paco Alcacer, who played for Spain this week (although admittedly that’s not as an impressive a statement as it was a few years ago), and has been attracting interest from both Chelsea and Arsenal. Valencia want to tie him down to a new contract though, in order to ward off the circling vultures, like a flaming torch warding off, well, some circling vultures.
 
Possibly in some sort of karmic justice for Chelsea gathering up all these youngsters and laughing in the face of everyone else, it seems Real Madrid are taking a good long look at Eden Hazard, and will write the figure ‘£60million’ on a little bit of paper before sliding it across the table, their eyebrows raised in expectation. This will only occur if Cristiano Ronaldo forces his way out to rejoin Manchester United though, so don’t panic too much about that one, Blues.
 
Robbie Fowler has applied for the Leeds job, apparently. Presumably in a bid to be an answer in a Sporcle quiz 12 years from now about ‘brief managerial spells.’ Can’t see what could possibly go wrong there.
 
Finally, there are things in life that are a constant. Comforting. They’ll always be around. Like a favourite teddy bear that will always be there to give a cuddle at times of peril. Not that the Rumour Mill has a teddy. Obviously. What sort of 31-year-old would sleep with a teddy bear in their bed every night and have a screaming fit if Bobo was to ever go missing? That would be silly and childish. Why, who have you been talking to?
 
Very much near the top of the list of comfortingly familiar things is someone linking Klass-Jan Huntelaar with a move to the Premier League, and bless their hearts, someone has done just that, presumably just to offer some comfort to the Rumour Mill at this difficult time. Arsenal, Liverpool and Tottenham are the clubs involved this time, somewhat inevitably.
 
Incidentally, if anyone finds a small brown stuffed bear, one eye missing, with a polka dot bow on its head and wearing a little t-shirt that says ‘Rumour Mill’s Best Friend’ on it, then let us know because...erm...apparently someone has lost it. Not us though. Obviously.


