http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/27/southampton-ronald-koeman-chelsea-premier-league

Ronald Koeman tells Southampton to go for it against Chelsea


At first it was just a language problem that led Ronald Koeman to say he did not understand the question about whether he would be tempted to “park the bus” when Chelsea pull into St Mary’s on Sunday. Then it became clear that it was not just the phrase that was unfamiliar to him: the very concept of opting for an ultra-defensive approach is alien to the Dutchman, who insisted that Southampton will attack against the league leaders.
 
“I believe in our way of playing and not to change the system, we try to do it our way,” said Koeman, whose team have regained their early-season form thanks to successive victories over Everton and Crystal Palace.
 
Those wins have restored confidence after five straight defeats had stifled talk about the club challenging for a place in next season’s Champions League. Southampton have climbed back into the top four and even though they have lost to all the big-name sides that they have faced – Arsenal, Manchester City, Manchester United, Liverpool and Tottenham – Koeman is intent on ensuring his team will not take an inferiority complex into the meeting with Chelsea. Koeman dares to try to keep his team among the elite by playing with boldness.
 
“We are dreaming a little bit now because we have a great position in the league,” he said. “We had a difficult time after some defeats. We have now won two in a row, that’s important, game by game to do our best and what we like to do: play attractive football, offensive football. And go for it. But that means every game, not because our opponent is Chelsea or Manchester City. No, we go for it. That’s football and if you don’t go for it, stay home.”
 
Although he has not altered his attacking approach, Koeman has helped stimulate Southampton’s resurgence by changing his system, with the wins over Everton and Palace coming in a new 3-5-2 arrangement.
 
The team has also benefitted from the return to fitness of influential players such as James Ward-Prowse, with Koeman even enjoying the luxury of rotating a squad that was short of options a few weeks ago, as Dusan Tadic, Victor Wanyama and Shane Long began on the bench at Palace.
 
“All the lads are buzzing and we’re back on track,” says Ward-Prowse. “It is going to be a great game between two teams that are in form now. It will be an entertaining encounter.
 
“Chelsea are a fantastic side, have a lot of world-class players but if we are to get to where we want to get to in Europe we’re going to have play teams like this. That’s a sort of challenge and we’re ready for it.”


