http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/14/sunderland-tottenham-premier-league-match-report

Sunderland’s Gus Poyet has work to do after scraping point against Tottenham


Gus Poyet’s 11 months on Wearside can be viewed as a crusade intended to transform Sunderland into a possession-monopolising, tempo-controlling side capable of starving opponents of the ball for prolonged periods.
 
So far the results have been broadly encouraging. Much more patient and appreciably better technically than in the days when Martin O’Neill decided the best way round his squad’s limitations was to set Sunderland up as a counterattacking outfit, the Poyet gospel is evidently getting through.
 
Yet all things are relative and Tottenham Hotspur’s visit confirmed there is still an awful long way to go before Poyet can deem his mission a success. Almost embarrassingly superior, Mauricio Pochettino’s players forced Sunderland to defend deep and scavenge.
 
Spurs should have won comfortably but the reality that the excellent Christian Eriksen, Mousa Dembélé, Erik Lamela and company did not return south with three points represented a reminder that a mentally resilient Sunderland still know how to scuffle when necessary.
 
Home fans increasingly accustomed to seeing Poyet’s students enjoying lots of possession were torn between shock and admiration for a Spurs side big on artistic merit and, give or take an odd tweak, surely capable of chasing a few glittering prizes this season.
 
It was Poyet’s good fortune that Spurs spurned a series of chances while sometimes coming over a little slapdash at the back. “It was very hard and I feel for my players,” said Sunderland’s manager, who is still seeking his first Premier League win of the season.
 
“If players like Adam Johnson and Ricky Álvarez don’t have the ball then they have to run and mark and that’s not easy for them. But it wasn’t because we were technically terrible or that we couldn’t pass the ball, it was that we couldn’t get the ball – which is a different issue.”
 
Things improved after Emanuele Giaccherini’s second-half liberation from the bench. Even so, a Sunderland performance in which Johnson swiftly equalised Nacer Chadli’s early opener and Jordi Gómez’s late free-kick was diverted beyond Hugo Lloris by the unfortunate Harry Kane to once again level matters, was more about heart than mind.
 
Once, early in the second half, Eriksen had restored Tottenham’s lead Poyet introduced Giaccherini in a wonderfully subtle central creating role behind Connor Wickham. The Italian’s guile enabled the impressive Wickham to frighten Spurs but old-fashioned bloody mindedness also played a big part in inspiring an unlikely fightback.
 
“We’ve done a lot of talking about style of play,” said Poyet, who, perhaps significantly, did not even offer Steven Fletcher, the £12m Scotland striker, a place on the bench. “But you can’t just rely on playing well because there will be difficult games like this. Games when it’s about mentality and leadership and Lee Cattermole making a couple of tackles and bringing the crowd up. The mentality of my squad is great now. There were moments out there that were very hard for us but they never gave up.”
 
Emmanuel Adebayor could barely believe Spurs had only drawn. On an afternoon when he created Chadli’s goal, Pochettino’s seemingly re-born striker gave Wes Brown an arduous workout and had cause to feel cheated.
 
“It’s difficult to take after dominating,” said Adebayor. “We were in such control. We gave ourselves a platform but couldn’t build on it. We had so many chances but couldn’t put the game out of sight. The most frustrating thing is that we weren’t rewarded for such a good performance. Sunderland won’t be able to believe they got a point. We’ve got to finish teams off when we’ve got them on the ropes.”
 
Pochettino said his squad would be scrutinising DVDs to highlight precisely what had gone wrong. Pivotal incidents will doubtless be deconstructed and minutely dissected but fortune’s role cannot be discounted.
 
The array of hi-tech analytical tools at modern managers’ disposal may afford them an illusion of control but the apologetic set of Poyet’s face as he embraced his fellow South American at the end spoke volumes. The part sheer luck plays in determining results should never be under-estimated.
 
Man of the match Mousa Dembélé (Tottenham)


