http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/18/rafael-benitez-liverpool-football-rumour-mill

Football rumours: Rafael Benítez to rejoin Liverpool?


When he was out of work, rumour had it that Rafael Benítez used to stroll into Liverpool’s training ground with his dog Nelson – ”great man, great dog” – and engage in witty repartee with Roy Hodgson, the fella who nicked his job. They really did like to see Benitez at first, although there came a time when they wondered whether it was appropriate for him to keep coming in. But the visits soon stopped. Benítez started a blog. He won a blogging award, which convinced Chelsea to hire him. Then Napoli lured him to Italy last year and the future looked bright again but now Benítez is hinting that he will leave Naples at the end of the season, leading to speculation that he is set for a glorious return to Liverpool. His odds have been slashed to 6-1. No one tell Brendan Rodgers. That poor man.
 
Meanwhile Benítez has announced that Mario Balotelli will not be joining Napoli. Well, duh. It all makes sense now. He wants him to be his new Dirk Kuyt, his Crouchigol, his Morientesgol, his new Lord of the Manor of Frodsham.
 
Speaking of people who want to leave Italy for England, apparently Milan’s Nnamdi Oduamadi has said that it would be a dream come true for him to join Crystal Palace. Clearly this is a cry for help. Someone alert the authorities.
 
Luka Modric’s thigh injury means that Arsenal and Chelsea will not be signing Sami Khedira from Real Madrid in January. But they can still have some transfer market fun! After all, they both want Bayern Munich’s Xherdan Shaqiri. So do Liverpool. Shaqiri will be off to Chelsea, then.
 
Not to worry, Arsenal fans. You’re going to be spending some money - £60m on the Porto pair of Jackson Martínez and Juan Fernando Quintero, £24m on Sevilla’s Gregorz Krychowiak, £5m on Marcelo Brozovic and £0.00 on a new defender, which should keep Arsenal Fan TV entertaining.
 
And finally, Tottenham continue to show their customary lack of imagination by targeting Southampton’s Jay Rodriguez. Honestly, will they ever get bored with plundering that club? It seems not, but Southampton are ready to put up a fight and want Andros Townsend and Harry Kane in return. Daniel Levy is frowning. Be afraid.


