http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/24/brendan-rodgers-rules-out-defensive-coach-liverpool

Brendan Rodgers rules out bringing in defensive coach at Liverpool


Brendan Rodgers has dismissed the possibility of bringing in a specialist defensive coach to try to help Liverpool stop leaking goals. While Mario Balotelli’s shortcomings as a striker and undiminished nose for controversy have dominated the headlines since Liverpool suffered their worst ever home defeat in Europe at the hands of Real Madrid, the underlying story in the present malaise is of a defence conceding too many goals too easily.
 
There was not much any defence could have done about the way James Rodríguez and Cristiano Ronaldo combined for a sublime opening goal on Wednesday, though Rodgers thought the next two were down to poor defending. Yet, even though many feared for Liverpool against Real after their inept display against Queens Park Rangers a few days earlier, the manager remains adamant there is no need to send for outside help.
 
“There is no chance of us bringing in a defensive coach,” Rodgers said. “We have conceded a large number of soft goals, there’s no argument about that, but I think it is just a lack of coaching time that is hurting us. We need to reinforce basic principles at defensive set pieces, but we know that already. We have to get better and we will be working on it.
 
“When I first came in I was asked whether I would bring someone in to help the strikers score goals. I didn’t, and we got goals anyway. I think what we have this year is more games to carry, which takes a slight intensity out of us. We are in the big competitions now and there is an added expectancy on us, which there should be. We are Liverpool. When you concede the goals that we have been conceding there will always be questions asked of you. We need to answer those questions and I believe we can. In terms of bringing someone else in, we don’t need it.”
 
Rodgers is not claiming to know all the answers himself, however. In an almost Shankly-esque admission, he revealed that one night this week he was up at 4.30am, alone in his kitchen, contemplating possible adjustments to the team that might improve its balance. “It wasn’t that I couldn’t sleep, I was just thinking of ways that I could make us better and improve certain aspects of our play,” he said.
 
“Balance is the most important thing in football, and we are looking to get a better balance in the team but with limited coaching time. I have a hunger to improve the group and make us better and sometimes it is quite hard to think of anything else. I have every confidence that we will improve. Unfortunately it might not be quite as fast as we want.
 
“Perspective is the key word this season, and perhaps an unfortunate one. For some people results this season will be a wee bit frustrating given where we ended last season. But it is the nature of where we are. We have jumped into a new level of competition.”
 
With Daniel Sturridge still to come back, Liverpool are fifth in the Premier League and far from out of contention in Europe, where they are one of three teams in their Champions League group with three points. The situation could be a lot worse, though Rodgers is aware Hull have the potential to cause an upset at Anfield this afternoon. He is also aware there is a growing clamour to leave the underperforming Balotelli out, which he might do, even if alternative striking options are limited and his instinct is to give the player the opportunity to answer his critics with a goal.
 
“We brought in the player to give him a chance, and we will give him a chance,” Rodgers said. “He hasn’t yet scored the goals we would like but I have to work with the players that we have and Mario is one of them. He is working hard to try to fit into the Liverpool team ethos.”


