http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/20/liverpool-raheem-sterling-wins-golden-boy-award

Liverpool’s Raheem Sterling wins Europe’s Golden Boy award for 2014


Liverpool’s Raheem Sterling has won Europe’s prestigious Golden Boy award for his outstanding performances in 2014. The accolade is presented to the best player under the age of 21 in a top-flight league in Europe and is voted on by journalists from across the continent.
 
“It’s a great achievement to win such an award,” Sterling told Liverpool’s website. “It’s a really happy feeling for me and my family.
 
“Something I’ve always wanted to do is to work hard playing football and try to be recognised. I’m really grateful that people have shown me this recognition.
 
“It’s down to hard work. I’m really happy that people are recognising that I’m trying to work hard and do my best for this football club. I’m really grateful for this award.”
 
The Liverpool and England forward, who has been criticised for his finishing recently, joins an illustrious list of former winners, including Lionel Messi, Cesc Fàbregas, Sergio Agüero and Mario Götze.
 
The only other Englishman to win the award is Wayne Rooney, who impressed with his performances for Everton in 2004. Last season’s winner was Paul Pogba of Juventus and France.
 
The Arsenal manager, Arsène Wenger, whose side visit Anfield on Sunday, was full of praise for Liverpool’s 20-year-old, who was influential in the 5-1 defeat of the Gunners last season. “I rate him highly, Sterling,” Wenger said. “Everybody speaks about Suárez last year, but let’s not forget Sturridge and Sterling are very, very influential. I think he is one of the great players in England.”
 
Wenger declined to offer a reason why Liverpool, runners-up in the Premier League last term, are toiling so much this season. “It’s difficult for me to assess our direct opponent, two or three days before,” he said. “I expect to play against a very good team. This season they have a heavy schedule, like we have, playing Champions League games, Premier League games and it’s very demanding.”
 
He is relishing returning to Anfield for the first time since February’s humbling experience. “I have a lot of respect for the crowd at Liverpool, because they stand behind their team,” Wenger said. “There’s a special atmosphere. I remember one day we were leading 5-1 at Liverpool and they were chanting ‘You’ll Never Walk Alone’. It’s one of the few grounds in the world where you can see that.”


