http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/01/crystal-palace-sign-wigan-james-mcarthur-tottenham-zeki-fryers

Crystal Palace get Wigan’s James McArthur and Tottenham’s Zeki Fryers


Crystal Palace made significant additions to Neil Warnock’s squad in the hours immediately before the closure of the transfer window by securing the Wigan midfielder James McArthur in a deal worth around £5.5m and Zeki Fryers from Tottenham Hotspur.  
 
McArthur, a Scotland international, arrived at the club’s Beckenham training ground early on Monday morning but, after a day of medicals and protracted discussions over personal terms, was only confirmed as a Palace player a little over an hour before the cut-off. The fee for the 26-year-old, who has signed a three-year contract, falls a fraction below the £6m the south London club paid to Peterborough for Dwight Gayle last summer.  
 
Fryers, a former Manchester United youth-team player, joined from Spurs for an initial £1.5m with that fee potentially to double over the course of his contract with add-ons. He fills the problem left-back berth at Selhurst Park, with Palace having released Jonathan Parr and Dean Moxey this summer. 
 
“I am very excited to be here and it’s a fresh start for me now,” said Fryers, who also had a spell playing for Belgian side Standard Liege. “I have met Neil Warnock this morning and we had a good chat about the game and things on and off the pitch. I am really looking forward to working with such a great manager and getting to know my new team-mates.” Palace have also secured the Republic of Ireland international Kevin Doyle on a six-month loan from Wolverhampton Wanderers having seen interest in the Leicester City forward Chris Wood and Ipswich Town’s David McGoldrick knocked back. The price for the latter was quoted at around £11m, with the market apparently inflated by Fulham’s purchase of Ross McCormack earlier in the window for that amount. Doyle, who has been capped 57 times and was earning £40,000-a-week at Molineux, had spent the last few months of last season gaining promotion to the Premier League with QPR. 
 
 A late £2.5m offer for Town’s Tyrone Mings was rejected – the proposal would have seen Jonathan Williams move to Portman Road for the first half of the season – while interest in Norwich’s Gary Hooper also came to nothing. Glenn Murray, who scored 31 goals in the season Palace were promoted to the top-flight, joined Reading on loan until January in search of more first-team opportunities, though attempts by three clubs to secure Barry Bannan on a similar short-term basis were knocked back. 


