http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/dec/01/champions-league-chelsea-manchester-city-chase-places

Who will finish behind Chelsea and Manchester City in the top four? | Andy Hunter

3rd Southampton 26pts 
Those expecting an end to Southampton’s remarkable response to the summer exodus from the club, and a repeat of last season’s decline once a daunting run of fixtures arrived, should not feel too smug just yet. Sunday’s comprehensive defeat by Manchester City followed the loss of the influential Morgan Schneiderlin at half-time and Ronald Koeman’s team still have the best defensive record in the Premier League. They remain a team with genuine European prospects.
 
Plus A defensive unit led by the impressive José Fonte.
 
Minus A newly-built squad defying expectation is one thing, but sustaining a Champions League challenge with injuries mounting represents a more ominous task.
 4th Manchester United 22pts 
“Imagine where we will be when we start playing well,” said Louis van Gaal when United, apparently to their own surprise, went fourth with victory over Everton in October. Since then, and despite a ridiculous injury list, the squad has continued to adapt to the Dutchman’s methods and the second most expensive summer spending spree in history has covered for an unconvincing defence.
 
Plus Forward options that would be the envy of most Premier League teams.
 
Minus The fact Van Gaal does not have the same luxuries in midfield or defence.
 5th West Ham United 21pts 
Astute summer signings and the emergence of young talent alongside a few experienced heads have set West Ham on course for their best Premier League campaign since 1998-99, when they finished fifth. Their quality and resources will be tested over a demanding winter programme but Sam Allardyce has utilised varying options effectively, the criticism of a long-ball style no longer applies, and he has developed a team with genuine character.
 
Plus Players deemed surplus to requirements have been revitalised under Allardyce.
 
Minus A lack of quality in depth compared to more seasoned European qualifiers.
 6th Arsenal 20pts 
Patience has snapped in some quarters with Arsène Wenger and his inability to construct a resilient defence, sign a decent defensive midfielder or evolve tactically or any of the other problems that are levelled at Arsenal on an annual basis. But, as he was entitled to point out after Saturday’s win at West Bromwich, one of his repeated tricks is to guide the club into the last 16 of the Champions League.
 
Plus They always get there in the end.
 
Minus Injuries are stretching an already suspect defence.
 7th Tottenham Hotspur 20pts 
Sunday’s win over Everton provided an overdue reminder of why Mauricio Pochettino was brought to White Hart Lane as a relentless, aggressive team performance dominated potential rivals for a top-four finish. With academy products beginning to impress alongside more expensive talents who have had time to adapt, they have the squad to cope with Premier League and Europa League demands.
 
Plus The emergence of Harry Kane, Ryan Mason and Nabil Bentaleb.
 
Minus A new manager is still learning about his players and vice versa.
 8th Swansea City 19pts 
Garry Monk has made an impressive start to life as Swansea manager and would be sitting comfortably among the top four had his team not dropped 13 points from winning positions. That flaw runs contrary to Monk’s work on Swansea’s defensive resilience this season, their renowned fluent style suffering as a consequence, but in Wilfried Bony the team possess one of the finest scorers in the Premier League.
 
Plus A well-balanced midfield with the knowhow to control games.
 
Minus Despite Bony, not ruthless enough overall.
 9th Newcastle United 19pts 
A run of six consecutive victories in all competitions ended at West Ham United on Saturday but not before transforming the team’s prospects for the season and the mood around St James’ Park. Confidence should survive one defeat in a difficult away fixture, and Alan Pardew has developed a counterattacking style suited to the players at his disposal, but whether Newcastle have the depth and striking quality to challenge for a top-four finish is debatable.
 
Plus Their effectiveness on the break with Moussa Sissoko at the heart.
 
Minus Injuries are taking their toll on the squad with two-thirds of the campaign yet to play.
 10th Everton 17pts 
The past few days have epitomised Everton’s peculiar campaign. Tenacious and clinical away at Wolfsburg on Thursday, pedestrian and clumsy in defeat at Tottenham on Sunday. The pattern has been repeated so often it has cost Roberto Martínez’s team a chance to capitalise on the weakness of several rivals. Their Champions League credentials appear sound when they do click but consistency has proved elusive during a season with the added demand of the Europa League.
 
Plus A settled squad have shown top-four form in flashes.
 
Minus Romelu Lukaku and Ross Barkley have not rediscovered last season’s form.
 11th Liverpool 17pts 
One consolation for Brendan Rodgers during a desperate recent run was how few teams, with the exception of the top two, had pulled away from last season’s runners-up in the race for Champions League qualification. The Liverpool manager said before Saturday’s win over Stoke City he still had “inherent belief” in a top-four finish but a vast improvement in form plus an overdue impact from the summer recruits is required to sustain that optimism.
 
Plus Daniel Sturridge should be back in the new year.
 
Minus The team are lacking confidence and direction without Luis Suárez.


