http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/aug/30/mauricio-pochettino-tottenham-liverpool-premier-league

Mauricio Pochettino’s fast-starting Tottenham face test against Liverpool | Paul Wilson


Mauricio Pochettino passed a major test when Tottenham won their first home game of the season 4-0 against Queens Park Rangers. The visitors were obliging opponents, defensively disorganised and no match for Spurs’ energetic brand of attacking football, but that was not the point. The point was that QPR brought with them not only Harry Redknapp but Glenn Hoddle, two former managers still regarded in high esteem at White Hart Lane and considered by many to have been shoved through the exit door too quickly.
 
Spurs fans have seen young foreign managers come and go before, often starting promisingly but quickly losing the plot. With two favourite English managers on the premises, Pochettino could not have been sure of sympathy or patience from his own support had anything started to go wrong, but nothing did. Spurs were at their brightest, with Érik Lamela in particular repaying the faith of his new manager, and Pochettino had wholly won over the home crowd by the end. Thanks to their victories over AEL Limassol in a Europa League play-off Spurs now have four wins out of four under their new manager, and while it could be argued that they have not played anyone of any real stature yet, the same could be said of Manchester United. Unlike Louis van Gaal, Pochettino has managed to hit the ground running.
 
So far, so promising, although the visit of Liverpool on Sunday afternoon will provide a clearer indication of Tottenham’s top-four pretensions.
 
Pochettino actually said, in a pre-season interview, that it was his aim to eventually turn Spurs into title contenders, inviting and receiving some merciless Twitter mockery from fans of Arsenal, who last won the title 10 years ago, though at least the new man at the Lane had the gumption to use the word “eventually”. Spurs last won the English league in 1961, 11 years before Pochettino was born. While another title might be a legitimate long-term objective, everyone at the club recognises that long-termism these days is defined by how quickly an ambitious side can crack the Champions League, not just to make a quick visit like a tourist but to move in, settle down and paper the walls with the money.
 
Spurs have so far managed just one season in the Champions League, 2010-11 under Redknapp, which was greatly enjoyed by all concerned apart from the slight downside of alerting the rest of Europe to Gareth Bale’s pace and ability. André Villas-Boas’s brief this time last season was to do the same without Bale but with the proceeds of his £85m sale. Pochettino’s brief this time round is to do the same now the money has been spent. Quite a tall order, given that none of the new arrivals was an outstanding success last season, though Pochettino has built a career on developing the players at his disposal rather than shopping for new ones. Spurs’ spending this summer has been relatively modest, though Eric Dier is already showing up well and DeAndre Yedlin has enormous potential, but at Espanyol and ultimately at Southampton the manager forged a reputation for developing players then selling them on at a profit. As such he can be viewed as the antithesis of Redknapp and perhaps a more forceful trainer and tactician than Villas-Boas.
 
Pochettino’s gameplan revolves around a high line and a pressing game, or defending from the front, and owes a large debt to the thinking of the former Chile and Argentina coach Marcelo Bielsa. No one has nicknamed Pochettino “Loco” yet, though by all accounts his training sessions can be as rigorous as his mentor’s. Southampton’s Jack Cork said it felt like two hearts might be needed to cope with the high energy game suddenly being demanded, while Pablo Osvaldo, who played under Pochettino at Espanyol, described an even more extreme reaction. “In training he makes you suffer like a dog,” he said. “At times you want to kill him.” Osvaldo nevertheless ended up at Southampton to be reunited with his former boss. “It’s hard, but in the end you get the right results.”
 
Considering Pochettino was initially an unpopular choice as Southampton manager, or at least viewed with suspicion as a replacement for the popular Nigel Adkins, the right results came along impressively quickly. Relegation was comfortably avoided in the first season, the Saints’ first back in the Premier League after a seven-year absence, then, making full use of the home-grown talent at the club, Pochettino took his side into the top half last season, winning at Liverpool and taking points from Arsenal and Manchester City along the way. Before his arrival on the south coast Pochettino was dimly remembered in England, if in fact he was remembered at all, as the shaggy-haired Argentina defender who tripped Michael Owen for the crucial penalty in the World Cup encounter in Sapporo in 2002. In under two years he smartly redefined himself as a young manager clearly going places, and Southampton chairman Nicola Cortese’s confidence in a left-field choice who had only claimed two wins from 14 games before being sacked at Espanyol began to look less misplaced.
 
In fact, Pochettino had always been well respected by his peers in Spain, where it was recognised that just keeping Espanyol afloat was an achievement when the club constantly had to sell their best players to make ends meet. Southampton offered him more scope, Spurs more still. Not only is he now working with quality players, he has every chance of keeping them, even adding to them. Interestingly, he no longer seems to be working them like dogs. “Everything in training is about pressing, reactions when you lose the ball, high-tempo defending from the front,” Andros Townsend says. “It is not necessarily harder than what we have been used to. It just feels like a normal session, to be honest, but so far it has come to fruition on the pitch. Defend high up the pitch and you’ll get your chances high up the pitch. It’s something new to me, something I’m still learning, but I’m looking forward to getting more chances on goal with the way we play now.”
 
Liverpool arrive at White Hart Lane paying Pochettino the ultimate compliment. Over the summer they bought three of his Southampton players. “They did it in the correct way,” Pochettino says, no stranger to seeing his proteges turn up as opponents. “It will not be easy on the emotions to confront Dejan, Adam or Rickie, but once the referee blows his whistle we are enemies for 90 minutes. We need to be careful against Liverpool. They are very fast on the offensive; we must remain focused and impose our own philosophy. But it is important to create ambition and excitement for the supporters, and I think that has happened. This will be a very big test because Liverpool have a squad built to win the Premier League, but we have made a good start, and it is always the same in football. If you are winning, people expect more, even if we are still right at the start of the season.”


