http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/21/carlo-ancelotti-real-madrid-liverpool-honour

Real Madrid’s Carlo Ancelotti ‘honoured’ to face Liverpool at Anfield


When the Spanish journalists had finally stopped asking him about the injury situation for the clásico on Saturday – Gareth Bale will not be back in time – Real Madrid’s manager Carlo Ancelotti said it was “a great honour” to come to Liverpool as only the second individual after Bob Paisley to win three European Cups.
 
“He was a fantastic manager and to be sitting here in the stadium is a great honour for me,” Ancelotti said. “The atmosphere at this ground is always a little bit special, and the European history is exceptional. I think you will see a spectacular explosion of football on Wednesday night, everything that is good about the game. I find it incredible that I am being asked about injuries ahead of Saturday when we are here to focus on a game against Liverpool.”
 
Ancelotti, twice a European Cup winner with Milan and now with Real Madrid, paid tribute to the incredible form of Cristiano Ronaldo, a player he recently described as the best he has ever worked with. “He’s in a really good moment right now, incredibly focused, and I think it might be impossible for him to do any better,” the Real Madrid manager said.
 
Alvaro Arbeloa, returning to Liverpool after playing for several seasons under Rafa Benítez, joined in the admiration. “The form Cristiano is currently showing is incredible,” the defender said. “The records he is setting in Spain at the moment take some believing. I don’t know if he is in the best form of his career, other people may be better placed to judge, but confidence-wise I’d say he is the highest he could be right now.”
 
Ronaldo, too, has experience of playing at Anfield, albeit as a visitor, and he has been telling his Real Madrid team-mates to expect an intimidating atmosphere. “I’ve been telling them the same thing,” Arbeloa said. “But Cristiano has mentioned he always found this the most difficult away ground from his time in the Premier League.
 
“Many things have changed from the last times the teams met [March 2009], both clubs have brought in new players, but I think the Anfield atmosphere on a European night will always be the same.
 
“Even league matches have a special atmosphere here. It is difficult to explain, you just have to experience it. Every player should try it at least once in his career. People are telling me Liverpool did not play all that well at the weekend, but believe me if they had lost 10-0 at QPR I would still be worried about coming here for a European night. We are expecting a tough game.”


