http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/29/liverpool-simon-mignolet-rumours-future-barcelona

Liverpool’s Simon Mignolet insists he is not worried over his future


The Liverpool goalkeeper Simon Mignolet has dismissed concerns over his stuttering start to the season and said he is not feeling the pressure despite rumours Brendan Rodgers is considering an approach to sign the former Barcelona goalkeeper Víctor Valdés.
 
The Belgium international has conceded nine goals in the first six matches of the season as Liverpool have struggled to recapture last season’s form that saw them finish as runners-up behind Manchester City. Mignolet was blameless for Phil Jagielka’s spectacular late equaliser that denied Rodgers’ side the three points in Saturday’s Merseyside derby but has been under scrutiny having recorded only two clean sheets in his past 17 club appearances.
 
The Spain international Valdés – a free agent having left Barcelona in the summer – is almost recovered from the anterior cruciate knee ligament he suffered in March and is likely to open negotiations over his next destination in the next few weeks. However, Mignolet is determined to not let any speculation affect him and shrugged off suggestions he is struggling to cope.
 
“Well, the only pressure is what you put yourself under. What is pressure? Pressure is what is happening in Iraq at the moment when there is a war. That is pressure,” he said.
 
“We are all football players and we are here to do our best. You want to work hard in training and we will see what happens at a weekend. I can only do my best, work hard, be positive and confident and I believe in myself. That is the only thing I can do.”
 
Asked whether rumours about Valdés had unsettled him, Mignolet added: “If I have to look into all the people and players who are linked with Liverpool, then there will be another team on the pitch. Every week there would be a different 11 playing.
 
“So it is just the fact that you play for a big club and you have to accept that is the way it is but I don’t read anything into that. I am here to play my game and to do my best every week, I can only work hard in training, be positive and make sure I play well at the weekend.”
 
Mignolet was bought from Sunderland to replace Pepe Reina at the start of last season but ended up conceding 50 goals despite Liverpool’s highest league finish for five years. A mistake in his side’s opening Champions League match against the Bulgarian side Ludogorets provoked more criticism but the 26-year-old is confident he is learning from his mistakes.
 
He said: “As a goalkeeper you are always very dependent on the whole team. If you concede one or two goals, you always say you could have done this or that better at that moment in time. There will always be things like that.
 
“I accept it, try to learn from it and hopefully it doesn’t happen again in the future. I always move on to the next game and ensure I approach it in a positive mindset. I have to be ready when called upon.”
 
Liverpool play in Basel on Wednesday in their second group stage match knowing a victory would go a long way to ensuring they qualify from Group B.
 
“It is another big game to look forward to,” Mignolet said.
 
“We are disappointed to only get one point against Everton because I felt we deserved all three and a clean sheet. On Wednesday we hope to get a second victory in the Champions League because that would give us a good chance and a good perspective for the rest of the group.
 
“It is something positive if you have another game to look forward to.”


