http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/04/alan-pardew-moussa-sissoko-newcastle-chelsea

Alan Pardew banks on payback from Moussa Sissoko against Chelsea


Alan Pardew said Moussa Sissoko owes Newcastle United a good game at home to Chelsea on Saturday after serving a silly suspension but is expecting to fend off bids for the France midfielder when the transfer window opens next month.
 
Sent off for collecting a thoroughly unnecessary second yellow card – just moments after his first for kicking the ball away – at West Ham last Saturday, Sissoko missed Tuesday’s 1-1 draw with Burnley at Turf Moor and Pardew is relieved to have arguably his best player back for the visit of José Mourinho’s team.
 
“I think Moussa does owe the team a little bit if I’m honest,” Newcastle’s manager said. “That sending off was needless and he would possibly be the first to admit it. On the other hand, if there’s one player Chelsea will have a close eye on it is Moussa – and I know how thorough Mourinho is with his preparations. Moussa’s been absolutely superb for us this season – and I’m looking for a big game from him.”
 
An amalgam of formidable power, pace and technical precision, Sissoko has thrived since been shifted to a more central, slightly deeper role. Still extremely dangerous offensively but also adept at disrupting opponents’ play, he is seen as Newcastle’s answer to Yaya Touré.
 
The comparisons have heightened interest in the former Toulouse midfielder from clubs involved in the Champions League, with both Mourinho and Arsenal’s Arsène Wenger known admirers of his talent.
 
“We’ve not had contact from anybody else or heard from anybody else,” said Pardew, who would resist any attempt to prise a prize asset away from St James’ Park. “Moussa is playing for a club where big clubs have come before and taken players away. I understand that so therefore I guess he’s a player they’ll be looking at. That’s all I can say because he’s been terrific for us.”
 
There is a caveat. Sissoko suffered a prolonged dip in form earlier this year. Until this autumn’s renaissance, memories of his stunning home debut against Chelsea in February 2013, when he scored twice in a 3-2 Newcastle victory, were fading fast.
 
“Don’t get me wrong, Moussa had a great day back then but he’s a better player now,” Pardew said. “Part of his problem after that was, because the team dipped, they took him with them. I wouldn’t put everything at his door though. He’s only a young player, only 25 and he already has 27 caps for France. This is a guy who could win 50, 60, 70 international caps. He’s always been powerful but he’s a better player than he was in that game against Chelsea nearly two years ago. Moussa now has more experience and a better knowledge of the Premier League. And without a doubt he’s improved technically.”
 
Pardew had hoped the technically accomplished Davide Santon would have a similarly influential impact his season but instead the Italy left-back – a particular favourite of Mourinho’s during their Internazionale days – is sidelined following another operation on his troublesome right knee last May. Yet if Santon has almost become a forgotten man on Tyneside, his offensive qualities are missed at St James’ Park.
 
“Davide hasn’t been forgotten by us,” Pardew said. “We know we have an outstanding talent there. He’s on the way back and has made some big strides this week. By the start of January I expect to see Davide in and around the team.
 
“When the surgeon went in to his knee it was a little bit worse than we expected. I don’t think it was career-threatening but the rehab was always going to take a bit longer than we thought.”


