http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/nov/08/liverpool-taunt-chelsea-over-history-but-it-is-about-all-they-did

Liverpool taunt Chelsea over history but it is about all they did | Paul Wilson


Liverpool supporters still like to taunt Chelsea about having no history, even though it is no longer strictly true. In 2012 the team Roman Abramovich’s money helped build became the first London club to win the European Cup, more history than most sides can boast, but Liverpool still like to see themselves as old school and Chelsea as arrivistes.
 
So when the travelling supporters in the Anfield Road end were unwise enough to risk a chant, about five minutes into the game, of, “Where’s your famous atmosphere?”, it took the Kop precisely five seconds to respond with: “Where’s your famous plastic flags?”
 
Meetings between these two sides in the last 10 years alone have produced plenty of history. There was the famous “phantom goal” Champions League semi-final of 2005, for instance, crucial in Liverpool’s improbable march to lift a fifth European Cup and instantly recalled when Gary Cahill scored an equaliser here that would probably not have been given nine years ago.
 
All Anthony Taylor had to do here was glance at his wrist to confirm a goal had been scored and point back to the centre spot. No argument. If that technology had been available when Luis García was credited with his dubious winner history might have been written completely differently. “Everybody knows it is the truth,” José Mourinho said approvingly. Of this decision, that is. Not the last one, obviously.
 
Then of course there was the eventful encounter in the league at Anfield at the end of last season, widely regarded as the title decider even though Chelsea had no interest in the title by then. A 2-0 win for the visitors gave Manchester City their opportunity to come up on the rails, with Steven Gerrard’s famous slip to present Demba Ba with the opening goal quickly entering football folklore. At one point here the Liverpool captain was the subject of simultaneous chants from both ends of the ground, the Liverpool fans admiring his greatness, the Chelsea supporters mocking his fallibility, but both to the same tune.
 
Gerrard, as he always does, simply got on with the game. He played a part in the opening goal, biding his time in front of his own penalty area before releasing Jordan Henderson down the left to begin the move that rapidly turned into a shooting opportunity for Emre Can. Inevitably, however, there were signs that Gerrard is slowing up. Eden Hazard left him for dead on a number of occasions, Nemanja Matic was the most powerfully energetic midfielder on show and with Cesc Fàbregas covering his usual amount of ground Chelsea were in control of the game for long periods.
 
Mourinho is never one to complain about narrow margins of victory: one goal is enough is his usual mantra, though his side could and probably should have scored more goals in the first half. Chelsea were on top so completely in the period before half-time that when Liverpool finally broke out of their own half to set up an attack it came as something of a surprise. For a good few minutes the home side had been completely flustered by Chelsea’s press, unable to put enough passes together to break free, their frustration exemplified when Gerrard and Henderson got in each other’s way.
 
Liverpool’s defence has been criticised this season but the concentration shown in repulsing wave after wave of intricate Chelsea passing moves was impressive. Chelsea were their own worst enemies at times, passing so instinctively and unselfishly that opportunities to be direct were sometimes ignored. When Oscar found Ramires in space with a delightful piece of improvisation the goal opened up in front of him and he should have tested Simon Mignolet. Instead Ramires squared to Hazard, who was in a good though not a better position for a shot, and Glen Johnson was able to make a block.
 
What Chelsea needed more than anything was for Diego Costa to get on the end of something, something other than Martin Skrtel’s nerves, and in the second half he managed it. When César Azpilicueta did well to keep the ball in play on the left, and sent over a cross that broke off Mignolet to present Costa with a chance, there was never any danger of the Spain striker missing. That’s what Mourinho likes about him. The others can pass the ball between them as often as they like, but Costa is simple, direct, and very hard to stop.
 
Skrtel claimed victory in the afternoon’s simmering feud, if not the match, when Costa went down under a late challenge and failed to continue, but Chelsea just sent Didier Drogba on as a replacement for the last few minutes. With John Terry evergreen at the back, getting his body in the way of everything thrown at him, and Drogba barking instructions to Azpilicueta when the full-back did not send the ball up the touchline quickly enough, Mourinho’s new Chelsea bore a remarkable resemblance to the original model. Not only can Chelsea now boast a proud history, they can probably make it repeat itself.


