http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/31/football-transfer-rumours-wilfried-bony-chelsea-man-city

Football transfer rumours: Chelsea or Man City to sign £30m Wilfried Bony?


Big plans tonight, readers? Same. The Mill plans to spend the entire evening in front of Sky Sports News, waiting for the clock to strike midnight, at which point the fireworks will start cracking and Jim White will cartwheel into the studio, having been released from his four-month hibernation. “It’s on!” he’ll shout. “It’s on!”
 
And it will be on. The transfer window will be open and Jim White will feel alive again. Exciting! There’s so much on the agenda. For instance, Crystal Palace’s incoming manager Alan Pardew was so impressed with Jonjo Shelvey’s special performance against Liverpool on Monday night that he wants to make the Swansea City midfielder his. When you’re the king, you can do what you want.
 
It could be a difficult month for Swansea, though, with news also emerging that Chelsea and Manchester City could be preparing £30m bids for Wilfried Bony. Congratulations to Swansea for doing their scouting for them. That will surely be of some consolation.
 
Liverpool are also after a new striker and have identified Villarreal’s Luciano Vietto as The One. Apparently he’s the new Sergio Agüero. Although knowing Liverpool’s luck, he’ll probably turn out to be the new Mauro Boselli.
 
Tottenham Hotspur would like to sign Danny Ings, which means that Burnley will be treated to the joys of negotiating with Daniel Levy. Lucky them!
 
Tony Pulis wants £2m a year to become West Bromwich Albion’s new manager. How many baseball caps could you buy with that money?
 
The new Freddy Adu, Martin Odegaard, could be heading to Southampton, who also want to sign Toby Alderweireld permanently from Atlético Madrid.
 
Arsenal might launch a £25.5m bid for Sporting Lisbon’s William Carvalho. He’s a defensive midfielder. So that won’t be happening.
 
And Norwich City are convinced that Scott Sinclair is real and plan to prove it by signing the Manchester City … actually, what is he? Winger? Club secretary? Programme seller? Big screen operator? Does anybody know?


