http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/19/ancelotti-denies-madrid-interest-sterling

Carlo Ancelotti denies Real Madrid interest in Liverpool’s Raheem Sterling


The Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti has dismissed speculation linking the club with a move for Liverpool forward Raheem Sterling.
 
The 19-year-old, who has risen to prominence for Liverpool and England in the past 12 months, is yet to agree a new deal at Anfield.
 
There have been suggestions that Ancelotti was keen to lure him to Spain, but the former Chelsea manager has denied any interest, pointing out that he already has plenty to choose from in attacking areas – despite Sterling’s undoubted pedigree.
 
Given that Cristiano Ronaldo notched his 15th league goal in seven games as Real Madrid romped to a 5-0 win over Levante on Saturday, it is easy to see why improvements in that area may not be a priority for Ancelotti – especially when he also has the likes of Gareth Bale, James Rodríguez, Karim Benzema and highly-rated youngster Jesé.
 
Ancelotti said: “Sterling is a player of great quality, certainly one of the best in Europe – but we already have extraordinary talent here.
 
“To think of another striker for the Real Madrid attack is really extremely difficult. It’s clear that Sterling is not in our plans,” he added.
 
The 55-year-old Italian is set to get a much closer look at Sterling when his side travel to Anfield to face Liverpool in the Champions League on Wednesday. Ancelotti insists he will make no special plans for Sterling because he prefers to focus on the danger posed by teams as a unit.
 
One player in the Liverpool ranks who may capture Ancelotti’s imagination is Steven Gerrard – and the Italian admitted he dreamt of pairing the former England captain with Andrea Pirlo during his time at Milan. Ancelotti, who won the Champions League twice during his eight-year spell at Milan, revealed that he made failed overtures to sign the midfielder.
 
“We had sounded him out but Gerrard’s bond with Liverpool was unbreakable. I don’t remember exactly what year it was but we did try. Of course, I wanted to pair him up with Pirlo, it was a fantastic combination. Putting Gerrard in midfield with Pirlo. It would have been fantastic.”


