http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/26/cesc-fabregas-chelsea-best-football-career

Cesc Fàbregas ‘playing best football of my career’ for Chelsea


Cesc Fàbregas believes the role he is enjoying in Chelsea’s revamped team has permitted him to play the best football of a career that has taken in spells at Arsenal and Barcelona, as well as in a Spain team who won the World Cup.
 
The midfielder returned to London last summer, Arsenal having waived their first refusal to re-sign the player, with José Mourinho convincing the 27-year-old he would be the fulcrum around which Chelsea would evolve. There was scepticism as to whether Fàbregas could flourish in a deeper role but, with Nemanja Matic a powerful presence at his side, the £30m addition has dictated the team’s rhythm and approach to impressive effect.
 
The Spaniard already has 10 assists in the Premier League and was instrumental in four of the five goals in Gelsenkirchen on Tuesday as Chelsea humiliated Schalke to secure their progress into the knockout stage of the Champions League. “I don’t remember playing as well and enjoying the football [this much],” Fàbregas said. “I’ve played in World Cup finals, European Championship finals, Champions League finals with great teams. I am not saying West Bromwich Albion [last Saturday] or Schalke were the best games in which I’ve played – probably they weren’t – but definitely they were games I enjoyed a lot. I feel right now I am playing the best football of my career.
 
“When I chose this challenge [of joining Chelsea] it’s because I felt it could be this way. But I didn’t come here to just play well and that’s it. I came to win trophies and if I could play well and enjoy myself, all the better. There will be games I cannot enjoy myself the way I am now because other teams will approach games differently. But the most important thing for me is we know what we are doing: when we defend, when we attack, when we have to slow the pace, go quicker. We are being composed, mature, disciplined, and are playing very well.”
 
Fàbregas has normally been employed in an attacking role over his career, and even filled in as a false No9 for Barça and Spain in recent seasons. His instinct remains to scuttle upfield in support of the attack – with his influence in the final third very evident since moving to Stamford Bridge – but he has operated with ease alongside Matic from a deeper starting position. He interchanges expertly with Oscar, whose own resurgence has been marked, to provide balance and poise to Chelsea’s approach.
 
“This is my best position, 100%,” he said. “I feel more in control of the game: I touch the ball all the time; I feel happy; I go and get the ball from here, from there; I can go forward and Oscar drops deep. So I feel free, I feel confident, I feel in control and that’s what I like the most in football. Sometimes in the last three or four years in the national team and Barcelona, I was playing like a No9. I have to do it for the team and I enjoy it, it’s all good, but here where I am playing is where I enjoy playing my football the most.
 
“There is no secret. I am playing next to great players and they are playing very well and helping me. We have a very young, talented team. The mood is great and, hopefully, it will grow as the season goes on because you know that for the next two months it’s going to be really tough – a lot of games. But the good thing is we qualified first in the Champions League group and now we can concentrate on the eight or nine matches we have until 1 January in the Premier League. That is vital for us.
 
“When I talk about playing the best football of my career, I am talking individually. Potentially, this team can be very good but we have to win trophies. No one remembers a team if you don’t win trophies. We have to win and that will say a lot about us. People will judge it how they want to judge it but the most important thing is to keep it going and, at the end of the season, we can talk.”
 
That domestic campaign resumes at Sunderland on Saturday evening where the leaders will attempt to extend their advantage. Chelsea are six points clear and unbeaten in 19 games in all competitions this season – 21 stretching back to the beginning of May –with the sides immediately below them, Southampton and Manchester City, meeting at St Mary’s on Sunday. So dominant have Mourinho’s team been one bookmaker has paid out already on them winning the title for the first time since 2010.
 
“We know people say how great Chelsea are, how well we are playing, how we have we ‘won the title’ but it is just not happening this way in the dressing room,” Fàbregas said. “There is a long way to go. We have played 12 games, there are 26 to go – it’s a long way especially with the Christmas period.
 
“We must play Southampton and Tottenham away in that period so you can drop points. It can happen. We have a strong squad which can cope with playing all these games in a short period, so no excuses but it’s the toughest league in the world.”


