http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/23/football-transfer-rumours

Football transfer rumours: Ramires to leave Chelsea for Real Madrid?


Tireless, tough-tackling midfielder Ramires is wanted at Real Madrid, where Carlo Ancelotti has realised that selling Xabi Alonso and Angel di María without bringing in adequate replacements might not have been such a great idea. The Spanish side will offer Chelsea £25m for the Brazilian in January.
 
In an age where it seems everything has a price-tag, Spanish newspaper Marca report that Real are on the verge of shilling the naming rights of their stadium for around £400m over the next 20 years. Currently named after the famous club president whose brainchild it was in the first place, the Estadio Santiago Bernabéu could soon glory in the working title of the International Petroleum Investment Company Arena, if a deal can be struck with the pertinent folk in Abu Dhabi. And to think some people say romance is dead, eh?
 
In other news relating to Real Madrid, the club have announced their intention to hang on to creative midfielder Isco, who has turned into quite the assist-machine despite limited game time this season. The news will come as a blow to Liverpool and Arsenal, who are both reported to have been fluttering their eyelashes at the 22-year-old once it emerged that their original target Pedro is likely to move to Juventus from Barcelona in January.
 
Manchester City’s fiendish plan to sign Ross Barkley from Everton has received blanket coverage across the media, with the Premier League champions ready to splurge £30m on the Scouse midfielder in a quota-reaching bid to increase the number of homegrown players in their squad who might actually be good enough to get into their first team.
 
The Rumour Mill would like to think that tedious speculation linking Cristiano Ronaldo with a return to Manchester United will come to an end now that the flame-thrower of truth that is the Star has reported the club are ready to cool their interest in the Portuguese star, because it might upset their current crop of high earning divas. If only life were that simple.
 
With opportunities limited at West Ham this season, the midfielder Ravel Morrison is on the verge of securing a season-long loan deal to Cardiff City. With the player due before the beak to face various charges at the turn of the year, any contract drawn up is expected to contain a January recall clause.
 
Norwegian tyro Martin Odegaard is just 15 years old, but the Stromsgodset playmaker is already being chased by Liverpool, Manchester United, Real Madrid, Ajax and Roma. Odegaard became Norway’s youngest ever international player in August, when he represented his country in an international friendly against United Arab Emirates. He will not turn 16 until the middle of December, at which point the Rumour Mill sincerely hopes his life does not spiral out of control in a maelstrom of acne, impure thoughts and furtive cigarette-smoking behind nearby bicycle sheds.
 
Should he need inspiration, Odegaard could do worse than follow the example of the Aston Villa defender Ron Vlaar, who overcame the turmoil of his teenage years to become a successful footballer. The Holland international will capitalise on this success by becoming the subject of a bidding war involving Manchester United and Arsenal when his contract expires next summer.
 
Finally, Roberto Mancini is being lined up to replace Rafa Benítez as Napoli manager, according to the Gazzetta dello Sport. The pink Italian paper also reports that the PSG midfielder and Arsenal target Adrien Rabiot wants to join Roma.


