http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/dec/14/talking-points-manchester-united-liverpool

Manchester United 3-0 Liverpool: five talking points | Jamie Jackson

1 Can United fight for the Premier League, at least? 
Beforehand Michael Carrick was asked by United Review what the club magazine termed a “simple question: are we in the title race?” The midfielder said: “If we are in and around the top by Christmas or January then we are right in there with a chance.” Well, with Saint Nicholas due down chimneys imminently this was United’s sixth consecutive league victory, with the final match before the big day being Saturday’s visit of Aston Villa. Make that a seventh three-pointer in a row and United cement third place in December’s final days. On Friday Louis van Gaal was given the same poser as Carrick and hardly knocked the notion of his team being in championship contention. Chelsea and Manchester City may – just may – be looking over their shoulders a little now.
 2 Where does Brendan Rodgers go from here? 
Surely a man voted LMA manager of the Year in May cannot be removed in December? The United fans seem to think so, though they would, of course. “Getting sacked in the morning” was the gleeful chant after a Juan Mata header was ruled (probably wrongly) onside and Brendan Rodgers’s team were 2-0 behind. Of a Liverpool that featured Raheem Sterling as the lone man up top, as Mario Balotelli and Rickie Lambert kept warm on the bench, Rodgers said: “In the last four or five games we’ve looked to become a bit more solid and we’ve done that, we’ve got some results. But I think we were moving away from the way we were creative over the past couple of years and now we’ve got to go back to what we do best.” A focus on winning at all costs would currently seem a better route to follow.
 3 James Wilson offered chance to cement his place 
Van Gaal could not have been clearer: “Radamel Falcao is fit to start. We need James Wilson in this match because of his speed.” After the 19-year-old shone in his previous outing, the 2-1 win over Stoke City, Wilson played alongside a resurgent Robin van Persie. During the first half he was given scant service though was willing to make the kind of runs that can open up a match and so delights the manager. Yet there was a feeling after the break that unless he somehow made an impact Wilson would be replaced. This, perhaps, moved him to flail at a 30-yard shot that went wide before he was replaced by Ander Herrera. Now, though, Falcao knows he has serious competition from the boy from Biddulph.
           Louis van Gaal explains his decision to play Wayne Rooney in midfield against Liverpool    4 Simon Mignolet the fall guy 
As with the XI Rodgers sent out at Real Madrid in the Champions League, the manager has illustrated he is not afraid of a brave selection. To choose Brad Jones – a goalkeeper who last featured in the Premier League in March 2013 – illustrated how Rodgers views Simon Mignolet’s form. Within 12 minutes Jones was watching a Wayne Rooney rocket pass him with the sense that he may have misjudged the ball’s flight. “I just felt we needed to change that area. Brad’s been very loyal in my time here as a number two and when he’s come in he’s done very well. I think the rest will do Simon good, coming out of the spotlight for a little while,” Rodgers said. Mignolet might be back in focus soon as Jones was also wrong-footed for Robin van Persie’s third.
 5 Injury curse strikes again, but Phil Jones survives 
Of United’s 3-4-1-2, in which Rooney played particularly deep, Van Gaal said: “My plan you shall see on the pitch. I have to change at the last moment because Marcos Rojo was injured in training so I have to change my lineup again.” This meant Jones was pressed into action despite the information before the match being that there was only a “remote” chance of him being involved should another defender go down. Given the 22-year-old’s rustiness he might have understandably been off the pace but the terrific sliding tackle that had to be expertly timed on Sterling as he sprinted into the area illustrated Jones’s class.
 
Towards the end the defender was taken off having played his part in a fine win.


