http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/24/crystal-palace-mile-jedinak-liverpool-lacking-confidence

Crystal Palace’s Mile Jedinak says Liverpool’s players lack confidence


Mile Jedinak has said it was clear Liverpool’s players were lacking confidence during their 3-1 defeat by Crystal Palace and that allowed Neil Warnock’s side to play with the freedom that brought them a memorable victory at Selhurst Park on Sunday.
 
Liverpool are 12th after a dismal start to the season and face an uphill battle to finish in the top four. Brendan Rodgers admits he is under pressure after a fourth successive defeat in all competitions and their performance against Palace led Jedinak to suggest that they are not as strong as last season.
 
“I think you could see they are a team low on confidence,” Palace’s captain said. “I remember watching them of late and last year when they were free-flowing and attacking and not taking backward steps. But we had that belief that we could get a couple of chances against them and it showed. We got a couple of chances and created difficulties for them.
 
“People will make their own judgments on [Luis] Suárez. It is a big loss to them? Well, that is evident because he was a fantastic player for them but, saying that, they have brought in players and they are trying to fill that void. It may not come straight away and it may take time but there is a lot of quality in that dressing room.”
 
Jedinak dismissed suggestions Liverpool did not work hard enough but the Australian midfielder felt Palace were the more assertive side. “You see your direct opponent and try to outmuscle them and outfight them. If that means they are doing less it wouldn’t be right to say anything; we just wanted to assert ourselves and they didn’t,” he said.
 
Jedinak scored his side’s third goal as they recovered brilliantly from the blow of Rickie Lambert giving Liverpool an early lead and he was delighted with Palace’s character as they ended a run of five games without a win.
 
“Look, people will make their judgments – we have been a little disorganised recently and possibly we have to work on the training paddock a bit more,” he said. “After the goal we conceded it takes everyone to pitch in and buy into everything. The whole squad is. Hopefully now we can kick on.”


