http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/sep/21/manchester-city-chelsea-five-things

Manchester City 1-1 Chelsea: five talking points | Jamie Jackson

1 ‘Super Frank’ boosts City’s title defence credentials  
This was supposedly a yarn about how a deserved 66th-minute booking for hacking at Diego Costa means off goes Pablo Zabaleta for a second yellow and up step Chelsea to unload a sucker-punch with André Schürrle’s goal that allows them to leave with an eight-point gap over the champions. Instead a man named Frank Lampard enters late on to be regaled with refrains of “Super Frank” by the Chelsea fans, only for the City supporters to return the song when he scores what may prove a crucial equaliser. Beforehand, Manuel Pellegrini said: “This has been a very tough week for us, facing three games against some of the top teams in Europe with two of them away from home. Although the results were not what we wanted or deserved, I thought we played very good games at Arsenal and then in Bayern against the German champions.” After Lampard’s intervention the gap remains five and the quest to emulate Manchester United and Chelsea as the only clubs to retain the Premier League is still on.
 2 £32m signing finally makes his debut – and an impressive one, too  
Eliaquim Mangala on Eliaquim Mangala: “I am a quite fast defender. I am good in challenges and good in the air. I have the ability to score goals. I don’t score 10 goals per season but for a defender I get my share of set pieces. I think that can sometimes be a plus during certain games that are more difficult. Set pieces are really important, especially in tight games with a few chances.I always give everything from the first to the last minute. I am the kind of player that comes to the pitch to win.” The pace, strength and competitiveness were all present and correct as the Frenchman produced toe-pokes to nick possession, interceptions on the run to break up attacks, and a physicality that adds to the sense of City being a team of formidable big men.
 3 José Mourinho remains José Mourinho  
On this showing the Chelsea 2.0 of the manager remain the Chelsea 1.0 of the Portuguese’s opening Stamford Bridge tenure: a machine built to steamroller opposition with the “flair” players of Cesc Fàbregas and Eden Hazard always subservient to the system. For the opening 20 minutes Mourinho’s men expertly executed a rope-a-dope strategy that soaked up the champions’ incessant pressure like a seasoned prizefighter. Then, through Hazard down the left, in particular, the visitors began to prod and probe to suggest that if City did not take advantage then a match they should have won might turn the other way. The canniness of the visiting manager was illustrated in the introduction of Schürrle, the man who turned the World Cup final for Germany as a substitute and appeared to have grabbed all three points for the west London club. In the event, a draw at the champions of England is still a fine result.
 4 What might a run of games do for James Milner’s reputation?  
Is the Englishman underrated? For a man who has notched 50 caps and won two Premier League titles, the FA Cup and the Capital One Cup the 28-year-old seems to have been stereotyped as a one-trick pony of grit and little else. Today Milner illustrated how clever and subtle he can be when operating along the right flank. This was his primary position but he was also spied switching position to the opposing side as an integral part of City’s fluid play. There was an early collect from Edin Dzeko then burst beyond César Azpilicueta before a return to the forward, before later popping up along the left to become available for Silva, and a delightful slide-rule ball for Zabaleta that removed the Chelsea defence. After ending in a defensive berth to display his versatility the Yorkshireman deserved the choruses of “There’s only one James Milner”.
 5 Muscular football lacks the finesse of the continental elite  
Here was a classic of the English game in which the artistry of David Silva or inventiveness of Hazard was trampled by the giants surrounding them. In Mangala, Vincent Kompany, Yaya Touré, Aleksandar Kolarov and Fernandinho, City have a posse who collided continually with Chelsea’s Nemanja Matic, Costa, John Terry, Gary Cahill and Branislav Ivanovic. One moment offered a microcosm: Kompany sold himself too soon as Costa surged down the left; the home captain recovered, barged his way back on to the ball and began to redirect traffic only for Costa to foul him, causing Mike Dean to blow for a free-kick. There was more: Kompany rocked to his feet and remonstrated with the striker before the two decided to leave it. As the prime contenders for the domestic crown perhaps this offers a hint of their fortunes in the Champions League: less predictability is required to claim the cup with the big ears.


