http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/26/liverpool-too-honest-fair-joe-allen-manchester-city

Liverpool too honest and too fair, says Joe Allen after City mauling


Joe Allen believes Liverpool need to be more cynical after describing Brendan Rodgers’ team as “too honest and too fair” in their defeat at Manchester City.
 
While the Liverpool manager blamed Monday’s 3-1 reverse on defensive lapses, and his side lacked City’s clinical touch in front of goal, Allen thought the champions cut through the visiting ranks too easily at the Etihad Stadium. By contrast, City largely restricted Liverpool’s threat during their ultimately comfortable win and were not averse to halting counterattacks with a foul. The Wales international believes that side of Liverpool’s game needs to develop this season.
 
“We can be too honest and too fair at times,” the midfielder said. “It can be seen as a good thing but at this level you need to be clever at times. At times we can maybe stop things at source and save ourselves a lot of trouble.”
 
Liverpool expect to discover on Wednesday whether the cost of Monday’s game exceeds three lost points, with Glen Johnson, Martin Srktel and £12m debutant Alberto Moreno collecting injuries at City. They finished the game with 10 men after Johnson limped off with a thigh problem after Rodgers had made three substitutions; Skrtel was caught late by Yaya Touré in the closing stages and Moreno twisted his ankle. The Spanish left-back left the Etihad Stadium with his foot heavily bandaged and appears a doubt for Liverpool’s visit to Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday, when Mario Balotelli will be in contention for his debut. The extent of the defenders’ problems is likely to be confirmed on Wednesday following tests.
 
Rodgers had admitted before the City game that Liverpool had to remedy the individual defensive errors that undermined their title challenge last season. The new signings Moreno and Dejan Lovren were caught out for City’s first and third goals but Allen insists that flaw will be resolved as Liverpool’s defence settles down.
 
“It’s small margins at this level. It’s not just negatives to take away from the game but unfortunately we conceded three goals. They punished lapses in concentration,” he said. “Last season we had a great season but when we analysed it we conceded goals too easily at times. It’s something we’re looking to rectify.
 
“We are certainly on the right path. It’s tough against a team like Man City who have such quality in attack but throughout the season we will see a big improvement in that area. City is a tough place for anyone to go to. We’ll analyse certain things, look to improve and look forward to going to White Hart Lane for another big game.”
 
Allen believes the spontaneity of Balotelli, a £16m signing from Milan, will prove a valuable asset. “I’m excited to work with him. He’s a player with massive quality. He has that spontaneous edge and he’s going to give us a massive threat. He is another great addition.”


