http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/15/scotland-england-grant-hanley

Scotland’s Grant Hanley: Wembley loss will spur us on against England


Grant Hanley has said that Scotland’s painful loss to England in August last year will provide an added spur for Gordon Strachan’s improving team when the old rivals meet again on Tuesday.
 
Scotland will host Roy Hodgson’s side at Celtic Park with confidence after Friday’s merited Euro 2016 qualifying win over the Republic of Ireland, a game Hanley described as the most intense physical contest he has experienced at international level.
 
While the stakes are lower and the legs may be weary, the Blackburn Rovers defender admits memories of their last encounter with England – when Rickie Lambert inflicted a late 3-2 defeat at Wembley – give Scotland all the incentive required to record another positive result under Strachan.
 
Hanley said: “It is not a case of saying job done after Ireland. Even though officially it’s only a friendly on Tuesday there is going to be a lot of pride at stake. We are looking forward to playing England.
 
“It’s another big game for us and I thought we were unlucky when we lost to them at Wembley a year ago. It could have been a different result. However, they have so much quality in their side and we know it’s going to be a tough game.”
 
Scotland are level on points with Ireland and Germany in their group after Friday’s win, with Poland’s impressive 4-0 victory in Georgia complicating matters for Strachan’s team and Ireland. “This group will go to the wire,” said Hanley. “It’s the toughest group of the lot.”
 
The central defender claimed it was Ireland’s direct approach under Martin O’Neill that turned the Celtic Park contest into a fierce affair, although Hanley himself was fortunate to avoid a red card for bringing down Shane Long as the last man and then catching the goalkeeper David Forde with a leading arm.
 
Hanley said: “It was probably as physical as international football gets. I don’t think you’ll get many international games like that. It felt like a Championship game. It was very intense and it was very pleasing to keep another clean sheet against a team as direct as that.
 
“Even through a physical game we still produced good football. It was hard for us to get a foothold in the game but the lads stood up to the challenge and that bit of quality from Shaun Maloney proved the difference.”


