http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/01/daniel-sturridge-new-deal-liverpool

Daniel Sturridge deal would put him in Liverpool’s top wage bracket


Daniel Sturridge has agreed terms on a new five-year contract with Liverpool that will elevate the England international into the highest wage bracket at Anfield.
 
The 25-year-old is close to signing the incentivised deal, which could yield about £150,000 a week, having been a major success for Brendan Rodgers since his £12m arrival from Chelsea in January 2013. Liverpool have been keen to reflect the striker’s impact and increased importance with an improved contract to 2019 and negotiations are understood to be close to completion.
 
Sturridge’s deal will be in keeping with Liverpool’s recent policy of offering performance- and achievement-based contracts and will result in him becoming one of the best paid players at Anfield. He would be in a similar pay bracket to the club’s highest earner, Steven Gerrard, who is in the final year of his contract. Liverpool intend to offer their captain a new 12-month deal beyond the end of this season although Rodgers suggested in Basel on Tuesday that the club need to see “how he feels”. Raheem Sterling is also in line for an improved and extended Liverpool contract.
 
Sturridge has missed Liverpool’s past six games with a thigh injury suffered while training with England and could find himself at the centre of a club versus country dispute should Roy Hodgson name him in his squad for the Euro 2016 qualifiers against San Marino and Estonia on Thursday.
 
Fitness problems aside, Sturridge has emerged as a key figure in Rodgers’ system at Liverpool – his responsibility increasing following Luis Suárez’s departure for Barcelona – and has enjoyed a phenomenal goalscoring record since leaving Chelsea. He has 36 goals in 52 appearances in all competitions for Liverpool, 32 in 46 Premier League games, and is the most prolific striker in his first 50 outings for the club since George Allan in the late 19th century.


