http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/oct/22/liverpool-real-madrid-five-talking-points

Liverpool 0-3 Real Madrid: five talking points | Paul Wilson

Sterling’s value rises on an otherwise difficult evening 
If Real Madrid really are casting covetous eyes at Raheem Sterling the 19-year-old will have impressed the Spanish club on first sight. He was comfortably Liverpool’s most dangerous attacker. Unfortunately on a disappointing night that was not saying a lot, although Sterling was distinctly unlucky in the fifth minute when Jordan Henderson found him with a wonderful crossfield ball. Álvaro Arbeloa took no chances and flattened him, and a lenient referee waved play on, possibly ducking out of the consideration of whether a clear goalscoring opportunity had been denied. Sterling received the ball on the edge of the area with no one in front of him. When Toni Kroos barged him over in almost identical fashion after 35 minutes and further down the pitch, he received the game’s first caution.
 Ronaldo’s confidence climbs to dazzling new heights 
Cristiano Ronaldo is playing with more confidence than at any time in his career according to Arbeloa. That would be
 
a lot of confidence then. He showed exactly what the defender meant with a quite breathtaking first goal. A one two with James Rodríguez barely begins to describe it. Skipping on to an exquisitely scooped return pass, Ronaldo sized up the situation in an instant, easily held off Martin Skrtel and sent a first time shot across Simon Mignolet for his 70th Champions League goal. There is little point in referencing Raul’s record of 71 any more, the battle now is with Lionel Messi, currently on 69. While Messi has scored his in fewer games, Ronaldo’s present strike rate is impressive.
 Clever Isco shows depth of quality at Real’s disposal 
It is outrageous that Isco can only get a game for Real Madrid when someone has to drop out. He is a very different player to Gareth Bale of course, but Brendan Rodgers, left, was right in assuming Liverpool’s opponents would not be weakened by the latter’s absence. Isco’s first touch and control are both of the highest order, and his temperament is equally reliable. On one of the few occasions he made a mistake, losing possession to Henderson in his own half, Isco had a chance to recover the situation with a foul, but thought better of it. Instead he simply ran back to position himself behind the ball, and won it back legitimately. An immaculate support player, Isco nevertheless received looks of scorn from Ronaldo and Rodriguez when he went for glory early in the second half instead of feeding one of his strikers.
           Real Madrid were outstanding, says Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers    Is Rodgers’s patience with Balotelli starting to wear thin? 
Liverpool looked livelier up front when Mario Balotelli had departed. Jamie Carragher had suggested Rodgers should drop his Italian striker as he is not mobile or hard-working enough to play the pressing game the manager favours. Rodgers resisted that temptation, but seemed to come round to the same point of view at the interval when replacing him with Adam Lallana. Rodgers said afterwards it was a tactical withdrawal, and it is hard to see where the manager’s £16m gamble goes from here. While Balotelli was on the pitch he tended to slow attacks down, which is exactly what Liverpool did not want. He still only has a single Liverpool goal to his credit, and if he was getting in position to take chances at QPR, which is what his manager asserted, he was not even
 
doing that here. Liverpool cannot get Daniel Sturridge back quickly enough.
 Liverpool’s 100% win rate wiped out inside 45 minutes  
Before this game Liverpool not only boasted a 100% record against Real Madrid – three wins from three encounters – they had kept a clean sheet every time for an aggregate score of 6-0. That statistic was in tatters by half time, and had Ronaldo shown more composure in front of the Kop with a glorious chance in the second half the damage could have been worse. Just as Ronaldo could conceivably have overtaken Raul’s goal record with one evening’s work, Real Madrid could have wiped out their aggregate deficit in the process. A lot has changed since that 4-0 result five years ago. Real Madrid are right at the top of their game at the moment. Liverpool, for all Steven Gerrard’s attempts to fire them up, are a long way off the top of theirs.


