http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/12/raheem-sterling-liverpool-brendan-rodgers-new-level

Liverpool’s Raheem Sterling is heading for ‘new level’ – Brendan Rodgers


The Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers has backed winger Raheem Sterling to show his game has progressed “to a new level” this season with the maturing 19-year-old accepting greater responsibility.
 
The England international has been in fine form throughout pre-season and, alongside Philippe Coutinho and Daniel Sturridge, demonstrated Liverpool still possess a formidable attack without Luis Suárez in Sunday’s 4-0 friendly defeat of Borussia Dortmund. Sterling’s physical and tactical development were evident against Jürgen Klopp’s side when he knocked imposing Dortmund midfielder Sebastian Kehl to the floor with a shoulder charge and reminded the new signing Emre Can of his defensive duties.
 
Rodgers believes the teenager, who has already played 77 competitive games for Liverpool, will have a greater influence at Anfield, providing he remains focused on his profession. The Liverpool manager said: “Something we said to Raheem when he first broke into the team, and something we’ve reiterated, is that you have to have an identity as a player.
 
“The identity he has is to score goals and create goals. That’s what the job is. He scored 10 goals last year and this kid is only going to get better. When you’re so young, it’s important to understand exactly what your role is. Not just look good, you have to be efficient and effective. His development has gone to a new level. He’s way above the level from when he first came in.
 
“Tactically, technically, and what has been beautiful to watch with Raheem has been his maturity. He’s turning into a beautiful young man, with all the responsibility. He’s taking it all in his stride and now he’s in a good place with every part of his game. It’s just about maintaining that commitment to his work. He’s still only 19, but in big games he’s performed and he’s a wonderful talent.”
 
Sterling delivered arguably England’s only encouraging individual performance and Rodgers claimed there is now trepidation in Liverpool’s rivals when facing the 19-year-old at the World Cup in the 2-1 defeat against Ital.y “The great thing with watching him now is that he gets you off your seat. When he gets the ball you think ’something could happen here’,” said the manager.
 
“There was a moment in the game against Manchester City [on Liverpool’s pre-season tour of the United States] when he got the ball on the left-hand side. He had Clichy coming to press him, he had Navas coming back to press him and a midfield player coming across to try to block the space on the inside. So for teams to have that fear of a young player shows his development. There is still work for him to do, but he knows that and is a really good boy who is developing really well.”
 
Liverpool’s chief executive, Ian Ayre, travelled to Cardiff before the Super Cup final between Sevilla and Real Madrid for further talks with the Andalucian club over Moreno. Sevilla have resisted Liverpool’s attempts to sign the left-back for a fee of around £16m all summer. Samuel Eto’o is another player interesting Liverpool but there has been no approach for the veteran Cameroon striker as yet.


