http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/03/liverpool-players-steven-gerrard-anfield

Liverpool players desperate for Steven Gerrard to stay at Anfield


Liverpool players have given unequivocal support to Steven Gerrard extending his Anfield career, with Rickie Lambert urging the captain to remain a one-club man “for the rest of his life” and Jordan Henderson admitting his departure would be “a massive loss” to the squad.
 
Gerrard was offered a contract extension by Liverpool a fortnight ago and insisted he would “decide when I’m ready” after returning to Brendan Rodgers’ side and scoring in the 3-1 win at Leicester City on Tuesday. The Liverpool manager has denied that money is the reason the 34-year-old is yet to put pen to paper, believing that a change in his playing role – as evidenced in the last two games – and a lifestyle choice are more influential factors.
 
While the midfielder considers his future, however, his team-mates have made it clear they believe he still has a valuable contribution to make on and off the pitch for Liverpool.
 
“After years of watching him I am enjoying playing with him and long may it continue,” said Lambert. “I think I am speaking for everyone involved in Liverpool when I say that we are desperate to keep Stevie. It’s clear that it’s his decision and the club’s decision but I think he needs to stay at Liverpool for the rest of his life. That’s just my opinion. He has got more than enough in the tank. He is still one of the best players around for me. Obviously he is not going to play every single game but he showed against Leicester what he can do.”
 
Henderson, who has scored twice in three games to help ease the pressure on Rodgers, explained that Gerrard’s influence exceeds what is seen on the pitch. The Liverpool vice-captain said: “Everyone has got a lot of respect for him. He leads by example. He is a top player but he is also a top person. The lads can go to him with anything. He will always help them out and put them first. That is massive as a captain. Everyone gets on really well with him. If he was to go, he would be a massive loss. Hopefully it doesn’t come to that.
 
“With the aura that he has got, he could be a different person. But he is very grounded, very humble. Every single member of the squad hopes he stays for many years to come. It is down to him, the club and his representatives to sort it out. He is huge for us and we need to keep him for as long as we can. Liverpool without Steven Gerrard is unimaginable. Nobody wants to lose him and I’m sure the club feel that way as well.”


