http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/13/chelsea-jose-mourinho-diego-costa-didier-drogba

Chelsea manager José Mourinho compares Diego Costa to Didier Drogba


José Mourinho believes Diego Costa is capable of mustering the “same profile of career” at Chelsea as Didier Drogba after the Spain international took his goal tally at his new club to seven in his first four matches with a devastating 22-minute hat-trick against Swansea.
 
The home side came from a goal down to overwhelm the Welsh club and maintain their perfect start to the new campaign in the process, with the £32m signing from Atlético Madrid becoming the first Chelsea player in 86 years to score in each of his first four games for the club. Loïc Rémy, a late debutant, also scored to ensure Chelsea travel to Manchester City next Sunday already boasting a five-point advantage over the champions.
 
Mourinho conceded Costa’s productive start to the campaign had been a surprise but pointed to the Brazil-born forward’s strength and power having already justified Chelsea’s patience in waiting to sign him rather than entering the market for an alternative target during the winter window last season.
 
“If the team plays well, he has to score goals,” said the manager. “Seven goals in four Premier League matches is maybe a bit too much – we cannot expect him to have, say, 14 after eight games – but the way he’s playing … If he keeps scoring as he is, that will give us a chance to stay at the top.
 
“He hasn’t surprised me. Maybe seven in four has surprised me – that’s not normal – but he’s comfortable in the team. We were building the side in a way where we were waiting for a certain type of striker. I think everyone knows now why Chelsea did well to wait for Diego rather than buying someone else in the midwinter last season. We didn’t want just to buy a striker. It is hard to compare with Didier. He started in 2004, 10 years ago, and had a fantastic career here. But Diego has shown he can have that same profile of career, yes.”
 
Drogba, who missed this game with an ankle injury, will have his fitness assessed before Wednesday’s visit of Schalke in the Champions League. “That group is more difficult than people think,” added Mourinho when asked about his team’s prospects in Europe. “It’s not because I’m Portuguese, but the Portuguese teams are always very difficult. It’s not a strong league, but the three top teams are very strong, very good. If you go to Chelsea’s history, when Chelsea play against Benfica or Porto it was difficult, so against Sporting [Lisbon], it’ll be difficult.
 
“The Germans are the Germans. Schalke have improved a lot since last season. I’ve not analysed Maribor yet, as the last team we’ll play against, but our group is difficult. It’s hard. And we have [domestic] fixtures that are like a poisonous gift for us after European ties: we play City, Arsenal, Manchester United and Liverpool after Champions League games. So there are some difficult weeks ahead of us.”


