http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/28/chelsea-oscar-willian-aston-villa-diego-costa-christian-benteke

Chelsea’s boys from Brazil hit form to help leaders defeat Aston Villa


Those ensconced among the chasing pack might acknowledge just how sinister even a routine Chelsea win feels these days. The leaders had leant heavily on Diego Costa’s initial splurge of goals, or Cesc Fàbregas’s authority and precision in possession, in establishing their advantage at the summit. Now, though, others in their number are rousing themselves.
 
Aston Villa suffered at that pair’s hands on Saturday, but they were dissected just as emphatically by the eager running of Willian and Oscar’s slippery movement and menace. That pair have laboured at times since returning from the World Cup – Brazilians who had been sustained by the prolonged adrenaline rush of a tournament on home soil that had promised so much, only to end in deflation and no little humiliation in its cruel final week. There has been a hangover of sorts ever since. The last week suggests the fog is finally lifting.
 
The industrious Oscar followed up his winning goal in midweek against Bolton in the Capital One Cup with a smartly taken opener here, supplied by his compatriot who would go on to cap a comfortable success by prodding in a third from Aly Cissokho’s unwitting assist late on. Oscar painted a glowing picture of his personal state of mind post-match. “I have had time [to readjust],” he said. “Mourinho told me that he has a lot of players, so I didn’t play against Manchester City, or Schalke at the start. But I started against Bolton and here, and I played well because I am not tired and am in good condition. I have forgotten the World Cup.”
 
That admission hinted at the psychological effects of that 7-1 mauling by Germany in Belo Horizonte, when a nation’s aspirations were so brutally trodden underfoot. Mourinho is unconvinced. “We’ve not spoken about the World Cup, and some of the players even make fun of each other about it,” he said. “Nobody was really affected like that. It’s physical. Players need holidays, a proper pre-season, and they haven’t had them. Willian didn’t start the season well. Oscar is the same. But now they are getting into the intensity of the game again.”
 
The Chelsea manager foresees arguably worse problems next summer, when there are European Championship qualifiers in June and the Copa América scheduled until early July. “For a World Cup some teams don’t qualify but, for those international fixtures, every player has to go with his national team,” he said. “They are going to have two weeks’ pre-season. I don’t even speak about the Copa América. I’m trying to forget that. If not I sell all the South American players ...” That was said with a smile.
 
This team is thriving around its Latin contingent with the domestic momentum all theirs going into next Sunday’s derby against Arsenal. Chelsea have a tricky contest at Sporting Lisbon before then with Costa, whose header secured an eighth goal in his first six Premier League games, to be assessed in training at Cobham on Monday prior to departure. The state of his left hamstring remains a concern, but it would constitute a surprise if did not travel to Portugal. “The difference between last season and this is that we have Diego, and Diego is scoring goals,” said Oscar as the striker strode past him in the tunnel post-match. “So many of them. I have scored two, but I want to score 15 this season.”
 
Villa, so impressive in those early weeks of term, lacked bite of their own on Saturday with Gabriel Agbonlahor isolated and well shackled, and no Christian Benteke or Libor Kozak to lead their line. The Belgian, absent since March with a ruptured Achilles tendon, could play a behind-closed-doors friendly this week and might even be on the bench against City on Saturday. “He has been training for a couple of weeks and, thankfully, there has been no reaction,” “He is not too far away,” said Villa manager Paul Lambert. “Everyone in the team will be grateful when he is back and with what he hands us is an attacking force. We’ll see how he feels.
 
“He’s one of the best No9s I’ve seen, even as a player, and I played with no slouches: three of the best strikers in the world at one time in Karl-Heinz Riedle, Stéphane Chapuisat [at Borussia Dortmund] and Henrik Larsson [at Celtic]. They weren’t bad.” Benteke’s return should soothe some of the pain of successive defeats.
 
Man of the match Oscar (Chelsea)


