http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/21/manchester-united-catch-chelsea-louis-van-gaal-draw

Manchester United can still catch Chelsea, says Van Gaal after draw


Louis van Gaal insisted Manchester United were capable of catching Chelsea, despite being 10 points behind the Premier League leaders after West Bromwich Albion punished some suspect defending in a thrilling 2-2 draw in which Daley Blind equalised three minutes from time.
 
Although Van Gaal said that it was “two points lost” at Albion and lamented the poor goals that his side conceded, the Dutchman maintained that United could overhaul Chelsea, who visit Old Trafford on Sunday. Asked whether it was possible to catch José Mourinho’s team, Van Gaal replied: “That’s possible but it is difficult to say because I am then arrogant. But I have done it a lot of times.”
 
United had looked like they would be leaving empty-handed when Saido Berahino scored his seventh goal of the season to enhance his case for a full England call-up next month. But Blind’s superbly taken goal, on an evening when Marouane Fellaini finally opened his account for United, earned Van Gaal’s side a point that leaves them in sixth place.
 
“Two points lost – I think we were the better team,” the United manager said. “I am very disappointed about the result. You can say we were two times behind but I don’t think that West Bromwich Albion has created many chances – I think zero.
 
“And we gave the two goals away. I think we dominated the game – that’s what I want as a coach, as a manager – but the manager doesn’t want a result like 2-2. I said that to my players, I cannot be happy.”
 
Van Gaal refused to accept that he needs to sacrifice some attacking flair to make the team more solid. “I don’t think that is the solution,” he said. “I have already explained that a lot of times. It was two errors [against Albion]. And also in the past, because I think we could have eight points more and then we are up [the table].”
 
With Chelsea, Manchester City and Arsenal to come in three of the next four fixtures, Van Gaal acknowledged that United need to improve. “Now we have to play against Chelsea. In the Netherlands they say that is another cookie, another biscuit. It is another level and we have to see if we can beat them.”
 
For Albion, who had gone ahead through Stéphane Sessègnon’s brilliant goal in the eighth minute, this was another promising performance under Alan Irvine and underlined how far Berahino has come since last season.
 
Irvine, the Albion head coach, predicted an England cap may not be far away for the 21-year-old striker.
 
“He’s in great form just now. He deserves what he is getting as a reward. With the potential that he’s got, he’s got a great future ahead of him. I’ve just said to Saido: ‘Keep on doing the right things.’ People will eventually make those decisions and I think if he keeps on performing like that he has got a real chance of being a senior international at some point.”


