http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/30/liverpool-glen-johnson-stoke-city-match-report

Liverpool’s Glen Johnson sees off Stoke and says he has no contract offer


Glen Johnson put his head on the line to secure a precious victory for Liverpool then placed it on the block by claiming Fenway Sports Group has never offered him a new contract. Bloodied but repaired with staples, triumphant but future uncertain, the full-back embodied his team’s precarious state against Stoke City.
 
November brought its first win for Brendan Rodgers at the last and while a legacy of Gérard Houllier’s final months in charge is to treat talk of turning points at Anfield with caution, Saturday offered substance.
 
There was little to be found in the performance, albeit one that improved immeasurably on a sterile first half, and Mark Hughes’s description of a “harsh result” was not entirely one-eyed.
 
But it was there in the resolve of Liverpool’s players, confidence drained and playing before an anxious audience, in the pragmatism of a manager prepared to omit from his starting line-up £113m of a £117m summer spending spree and in Johnson’s match-winning goal.
 
Saying you have got character is easy. Ignoring a defender’s boot to dive headlong into victory with five minutes remaining says it better. Two men sprinted from Liverpool’s technical area when Johnson beat Erik Pieters to Rickie Lambert’s header against the crossbar and delivered the club’s first Premier League win since 19 October. Rodgers made a mad dash towards the Kop when six days previously at Crystal Palace many had him heading for the exit. The club’s doctor, Zafar Iqbal, ran on to the pitch to insert staples into a gaping wound in the goalscorer’s head.
 
“It hurts a lot less when the ball hits the net, that’s for sure,” said the England international after his first Liverpool goal in almost two years.
 
“We fought hard from the beginning and I would have been very upset if we had only drawn the game. We have given ourselves a platform to build from now. We have just got to stay together as a squad, as we have been doing.”
 
Whether Johnson and Liverpool will be together much longer is doubtful. The right-back has attracted additional criticism this season over a contract stand-off with the club, with Liverpool prepared to offer an extension to a deal that expires next summer but on significantly reduced terms.
 
However, the 30-year-old, who is free to sign a pre-contract agreement with an overseas club in January and has been linked with Roma, denies there is a deal from FSG on the table. “First and foremost I want to play for a club that wants me,” said Johnson when asked about his future. “It is as simple as that. I have seen stuff in the press that I have been offered half the money I am on. That’s not true. I haven’t been offered anything. We are not speaking [about a contract] at the moment.
 
“I have enjoyed the majority of my six years here but if I haven’t got a contract, I can’t stay. It does play on your mind but that is when you have to be professional and do your best for the team.”
 
Liverpool are in talks over a contract extension for Steven Gerrard, who was rested as Rodgers had indicated he would be on Saturday, the 16th anniversary of his debut for the club. But Johnson has no intention of approaching Liverpool’s manager in an attempt to resolve the impasse. “I’m not going to go crawling to anybody,” he added. “They know where I am and they know the situation. There were minor talks at the end of last season but they were minor talks. There was nothing that I could accept or reject, just minor talks.”
 
There was vindication for Johnson and for Rodgers who decided to persevere with Simon Mignolet and prioritise resilience throughout his team selection. Joe Allen and Lucas Leiva brought balance and tenacity to central midfield and both missed glaring second-half chances, though Stoke had several opportunities to test Anfield’s nerve.
 
The impressive Bojan Krkic struck a post and forced Mignolet into a fine save with a stunning volley while Raheem Sterling, key to Liverpool’s improvement having been “pushed an extra 10 metres up the field”, according to Rodgers, blocked on the line from Mame Biram Diouf.
 
“It was a feeling of satisfaction, elation and relief,” said the Liverpool manager of his touchline sprint. “The three points were vital. We’ve got to make slow steps to get going again.”
 
Man of the match Joe Allen (Liverpool)


