http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/30/chelsea-afc-wimbledon-kingsmeadow-kingstonian

Chelsea in discussions over buying AFC Wimbledon’s Kingsmeadow Stadium


Chelsea are in discussions with AFC Wimbledon over buying their home ground, subject to the League Two side being granted planning permission to build a new stadium in the London borough of Merton.
 
Wimbledon, who will host Liverpool in an FA Cup third round tie on 5 January, are hoping to build a new stadium near their former ground at Plough Lane having played all of their home games at Kingsmeadow since their formation in 2002.
 
The Dons took over the leasehold of the stadium in March 2003, with former owners Kingstonian continuing to play their games at the stadium as tenants. Under the terms of the proposed sale to Chelsea, the Ryman Premier League club would be allowed to continue to play there, with the Premier League leaders intending to host youth team and women’s matches at the ground.
 
“I can confirm Chelsea FC is in preliminary discussions with AFC Wimbledon regarding taking control of the Kingsmeadow Stadium in order to play our academy and women’s matches there, should AFC Wimbledon proceed with its intended move to Plough Lane,” said a Chelsea spokesman.
 
Last month, Wimbledon submitted a planning application to build a new stadium on the site of the Wimbledon Greyhound track, which is adjacent to their original home.
 
“The Dons Trust, owners of AFC Wimbledon, can confirm that the club has been in discussions with a number of organisations, including Chelsea Football Club, over the future of Kingsmeadow, should our club’s proposal to move to a new stadium in Wimbledon be approved by Merton Council,” read a statement on AFC Wimbledon’s website on Tuesday.
 
“These discussions are confidential and each proposal is being thoroughly evaluated to ensure it provides the best outcome for the area and the club.
 
“Kingston Borough Council and Kingstonian FC, of course, have been briefed about the discussions. Any change of ownership of Kingsmeadow is a Restricted Action which requires approval by the membership of The Dons Trust before it can be completed.
 
“In the event that the Dons Trust Board believes that acceptable terms have been negotiated, then these will be presented to the membership for their consideration. Until then we cannot not comment any further.”
 
The Kingstonian co-chairman Malcolm Winwright added: “We are all aware that there are developments and we are talking to AFC Wimbledon on a regular basis.
 
“We have to wait and see what happens – there is a lot of conjecture going around and it isn’t very helpful. We are comfortable about everything that’s happening at the moment.”


