http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/08/diego-costa-jose-mourinho-chelsea-sporting-lisbon

Diego Costa could start for Chelsea against Sporting Lisbon


José Mourinho is considering starting Diego Costa in Wednesday’s final Champions League group game against Sporting Lisbon as he seeks to improve the Spain forward’s match fitness after his progress was interrupted by injury.
 
Chelsea have already qualified for the knockout phase of the competition as group winners and are expected to rest key players in the game against the Portuguese – who still aspire to finish second – at Stamford Bridge ahead of the cluttered festive schedule. Cesc Fàbregas, Thibaut Courtois and Eden Hazard are likely to sit out the fixture, though Costa may now gain some game-time with Mourinho having suggested the forward needs “to improve his condition” in the aftermath of Saturday’s first defeat of the season, at Newcastle.
 
Costa, who began life at Chelsea with an eye-catching seven goals in four league games, was omitted from the Spain squad in last month’s international window to rest after a series of persistent hamstring and groin complaints. He was suspended for the midweek victory over Tottenham Hotspur having picked up a fifth booking of the campaign at Sunderland and, while his threat and work-rate have remained a constant, the striker has only scored twice in his last seven outings stretching back to mid-October.
 
“For me, the problem is not the goals – they will come as a consequence of his condition,” said Mourinho. “He has to improve his condition. He was injured and had many doubts because he went a long time without training. Obviously that must have an effect on a player in the way he runs, the way he moves and in his co-ordination. I don’t think there is any problem but he has to recover.”
 
An outing against Sporting, who are competing with Schalke for the runners-up place behind Chelsea, might offer an opportunity to sharpen his fitness with Mourinho expected to offer game-time to other fringe players such as Ramires, Loïc Rémy, Kurt Zouma and Filipe Luís. The Brazil left-back is the only player in the squad who is one booking away from a European suspension, though the club boast adequate cover at full-back. Nemanja Matic, who was suspended at St James’ Park, may also sit out the game offering another opportunity to John Mikel Obi, while Petr Cech will return in goal for Courtois.


