http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/05/sunderland-liverpool-gus-poyet-luis-suarez

Sunderland’s Gus Poyet: I was right about Liverpool and Luis Suárez


When Sunderland visited Liverpool last season Gus Poyet created consternation on Merseyside by suggesting that, without Luis Suárez, Brendan Rodgers’ side would be mid-table rather than title contenders.
 
As he prepared to take his team back to Anfield on Saturday Poyet returned to the subject and an opinion which has appeared increasingly sensible since the Uruguay striker’s departure for Barcelona. “People were very upset with me last year when I said that,” said Poyet. “A few hate me. But I was not going against Liverpool and Steven Gerrard, who is one of the icons of English football, it’s just that I knew how good Luis is. He’s so good he makes a difference. It’s the same with Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo or Sergio Agüero.”
 
While Sunderland’s manager hopes to capitalise on Liverpool’s ongoing, and still painful, transition to life after Suárez he has sympathy for Rodgers, who has found himself under pressure this season, in the wake of last term’s second-place finish.
 
“I think it’s been a strange atmosphere at Anfield this year and we can make it a little stranger,” said Poyet. “Because what they did last year was so spectacular, so very special, expectations this season were a little bit out of proportion. Everyone was expecting them to be in the top two again and to be close to winning the Champions League but it’s not that easy. They are getting there but I think it’s going to be a slow process and not as quick as people think, especially when they keep changing players.”
 
Despite Poyet pointing out that Sunderland have “missed Fabio Borini and his goals a lot”, his board have ruled out the possibility of making a renewed bid for the Italian next month. After Borini’s successful loan stint at the Stadium of Light last season a £14m fee was agreed with Liverpool in July but the forward dug his toes in and refused to leave Anfield. Despite being given little more than a fringe role by Rodgers so far this season, Borini is said to have no regrets about that decision.
 
“I hope Fabio doesn’t play against us,” said Poyet, before urging travelling supporters not to jeer a player they feel let down by. “If he does play I hope our fans will give him a terrific reception. We never wanted to say ‘goodbye’ to Fabio but he is not here any more and so it’s a good opportunity for us to say ‘thank you’ to him. I had a top-class relationship with Fabio and I’m looking forward to seeing him and having a nice chat.”


