http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/24/erik-lamela-tottenham-hotspur-rabona-goal-asteras

Érik Lamela: ‘rabona goal for Tottenham was best of my career’


Érik Lamela has said his rabona against Asteras Tripolis was the best goal of his career, even though he scored a similar effort in the youth ranks at River Plate. The Argentinian forward hopes the wonder strike will prove to be a catalyst that sparks his Tottenham Hotspur career into life after a difficult start to life in north London.
 
Lamela scored the remarkable effort, his first of the night, with Spurs leading 1-0 against the Greek side in the Europa League, although his manager, Mauricio Pochettino, showed no emotion as the ball arced into the net.
 
Spurs went on to win 5-1 and, although Harry Kane scored a hat-trick and ended up in goal following the sending-off of Hugo Lloris, the game will be remembered for Lamela’s brilliance. The former Roma forward struck the ball with his left foot in the 29th minute, wrapping it around his standing right to make a pure and decisive contact.
         Erik Lamela’s wonder goal against Asteras Tripoli    
Lamela scored a rabona playing for River Plate as a youngster but when asked if the effort against Asteras was the best of his career, he said: “Yes, I think so. I’ve scored like that before, when I was playing in the junior sides at River Plate. It just happened in a flash.
 
“I wasn’t thinking about doing something like that, I just wanted to score and it was the most effective, comfortable way of making it happen. It’s something I’ll always remember because it’s something different from the other goals I’ve scored.”
 
Lamela struggled last season with injury following his record £30m move from Italy, but has shown signs of quality this year. He added: “The goal was important for me but also because I needed to score, any type of goal. I’m happy for the goal and the win. I hope to continue in this way but it’s just one game for me. I need to think about doing other things well and continuing to improve.”
         Lamela’s rabona goal for River Plate.    
Kane was guilty of a woeful piece of goalkeeping in the closing stages, letting a 25-yard free-kick squirm through his arms and into the net, but the comical denouement to an enthralling match did not dampen the young forward’s spirits following a fine hat-trick.
 
“It was eventful to say the least,” Kane said. “It was great to get my first professional hat-trick, and to do it for Spurs as well. Probably letting in that goal was one to forget, but I am obviously happy with the evening. I actually fancied myself a bit [as a goalkeeper], to be honest. I was hoping it would hit the wall, to be totally honest, and when it came bobbling towards me I probably should have just kicked it away instead. I was a bit disappointed and felt bad for the defenders who had done well all night. But it is something that happens and something I will have to live with.”
 
On Lamela’s goal, he added: “It was unbelievable technique for him to pull that off. For him to even try it on the big stage. I am delighted for him because both his goals were top, top finishes. I probably won’t be trying it – I will leave it to him. Same as I will leave goalkeeping to Hugo and Michel [Vorm].”


