http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/23/mario-balotelli-brendan-rodgers-liverpool-future

Mario Balotelli’s future at Liverpool remains to be seen, says Rodgers


Brendan Rodgers has revealed he has spoken to Mario Balotelli about his half-time shirt swap with Real Madrid’s Pepe and considers the issue to be “closed”, although the Liverpool manager did hint at doubts over the Italian’s long-term future at the club.
 
Rodgers admitted after the 3-0 Champions League defeat that Balotelli would face punishment for his actions but despite reports that the 24-year-old will face a club fine, the manager refused to divulge any details and insisted the issue will be kept internal.
 
“Any action I would take with Mario [Balotelli] would be kept within ourselves. We’ve had a conversation about the culture in this country and in particular Liverpool and that is it. Matter closed,” said Rodgers at Thursday’s press conference.
 
“There’s been no reaction to Mario Balotelli’s shirt swap from the rest of the squad but speculation is inevitable.
 
“The Mario Balotelli show is no different to me. He is treated like any other player. We have an image of a team here, of how we play and work and how we represent the club.
 
“I like players that are different. I like individual personality in people with hair and coloured boots but as long as they don’t see themselves as an individual that is what is important.
 
“They have to fit into the parameters of the team and if those players over the longer term don’t it can be difficult for them to work here. But in terms of that he is genuinely working hard and doing his best at Liverpool.
 
“Longer term we will see how that works out for him but he is trying hard on the training field to improve his opportunities to score goals.
 
“As long as he is doing his best that is all I can ask as a coach: whether that best is going to be good enough that remains to be seen - but that is the same for every player not just Mario.”


