http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/dec/03/steven-gerrard-liverpool-contract-leicester

Steven Gerrard deserves new Liverpool contract – and he should accept it | Paul Wilson


Steven Gerrard has spent most of his senior professional career in some sort of yoke with Frank Lampard, whether vying for the same place in the England team or provoking endless arguments about whether the pair should or should not play together. So it has not been the greatest surprise to see the former Chelsea player’s successful move to Manchester City inform the background debate about the Liverpool captain’s continued usefulness at his club.
 
When Gerrard was rested against Stoke on Saturday – or dropped as many of the back pages had it – it was the beginning of the end for some. Gerrard was either too old for Brendan Rodgers’s liking, or too big a name at the club to take that sort of treatment lying down. He had to be seeking a move, perhaps abroad, as a final chapter to an illustrious career. He had to have been keeping a close watch on the new lease of life Lampard has gained in Manchester.
 
The possibility that he appreciated the rest, so as not to play a third game in seven days, was barely considered, yet the heat map and statistics for his performance in the next game at Leicester suggest a rejuvenated player.
     Steven Gerrard’s heatmap in an attack-minded role against Leicester.  Photograph: Opta    
Perhaps Rodgers had a point all along, or, heaven forbid, knew what he was doing. Furthermore, at Leicester Gerrard was effective in his advanced position, the attacking role with which we are all familiar rather than the defensive midfield station that seems designed to conserve his energy by curbing his enthusiasm.
 
If Rodgers wants to play Gerrard further up the field, to continue scoring goals and linking attacking play, he probably will have to ration his appearances more judiciously. But at club level at least, there are no indications the game is passing by Gerrard. He can still do things other players cannot, can still bring his considerable experience to bear, and even at his advanced age, should still be worth another contract. Just like Lampard.
 
Yet while the two go together like salt and pepper, or possibly chalk and cheese, a couple of salient facts are being overlooked in the comparison. One is that Gerrard, at 34, is almost exactly two years younger than Lampard. The other is that the City player is not playing every minute of every game either. Far from it. Lampard is mostly being used as a substitute or an occasional stand-in for Yaya Touré, and has reached standards in the Premier League and the Champions League that have surprised himself as well as his manager.
 
The unexpectedness of the City coda to Lampard’s career is one of the reasons why it has worked so well. He was not signed as a trophy, a headline act or the last piece in Manuel Pellegrini’s jigsaw, just as a more than useful squad player whose experience could be a bonus. It is easier to exceed expectations when you do not start with them set sky high. Lampard has simply fitted in, because he has the requisite quality and is clearly not past his best. Pellegrini says he is very happy with him, and so he should be.
 
Rodgers keeps saying he is happy with Gerrard, too. He could literally talk for hours on the subject and sometimes threatens to, yet his evident admiration is often interpreted as a mask for some behind the scenes problem over selection, positional role or lack of progress on a contract.
 
As a one-club player and icon, Gerrard enjoys the status at Liverpool that Lampard used to have at Chelsea, perhaps even more so. José Mourinho was tough enough to move the latter out and face up to the repercussions if it proved he still had something to contribute, though it doubtless helps that Chelsea have renewed their midfield just as decisively with additions of unassailable quality in Cesc Fàbregas and Nemanja Matic.
 
Pity the Liverpool manager who forces Gerrard out before his time or, perhaps worse, the midfielder who comes in to replace him. This is a tricky situation for all concerned given that Gerrard does not seem to have any great desire to leave and that it is Rodgers’ position that has recently come under greater scrutiny. Gerrard could easily have another couple of seasons at the top; Lampard is proof of that.
 
What he might have to accept, with advancing years, is that he can no longer be the fulcrum of everything Liverpool create, the go-to man in almost all areas of the pitch, the scorer of fantastic goals to rescue improbable situations.
 
Nor, and this might be harder to take, does it appear Gerrard will get any closer to a league title with Liverpool in the time still left to him than he did last season. If he is offered a new contract, and accepts it on the basis that at some time in the near future Liverpool may be able to improve on 2014’s exciting climax and eventual second place, that might be wishful thinking.
 
It does not mean he should not be offered a deal, or that he should turn down an extension in pursuit of honours elsewhere. Gerrard has known this dilemma before, of course. Although he has admitted agonising over offers from Chelsea when in his 20s he has consistently valued his Liverpool connection above all else.
 
There seems little reason to change course, unless City were to make him an offer he could not refuse to join up next season as a replacement for Lampard. Most people are finding it hard to look past City and Chelsea for the title this season and perhaps for one or two after that.
 
Everyone knows Gerrard’s heart is at Liverpool. He has already had a great career and the idea is being mooted that his next contract at Anfield should include some coaching responsibilities to prepare for eventually taking over as manager. That could be looking too far ahead.
 
If Gerrard ever decides to move into management it might be a good idea to broaden his experience at some point so that Liverpool are not the only club he has ever known. For now, based on the experiences of Ryan Giggs and Paul Scholes, as well as Lampard, he should just carry on playing. For Liverpool. In the Premier League. Whenever he gets the call, which will be often. Because if you have looked after yourself, and Gerrard has, 34 is nothing.
     Steven Gerrard’s heatmap against Crystal Palace, where he played in a more defensive role.  Photograph: Opta  

