http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/04/mario-balotelli-racise-abuse-fa-inquiry-liverpool

Liverpool’s Mario Balotelli to tell FA inquiry of being racially abused


Mario Balotelli will submit evidence of the discrimination he has faced to the Football Association as part of their investigation into the “Super Mario” controversy. The Liverpool striker, who on Saturday against Sunderland will again be absent with a groin injury, was accused of racism and antisemitism earlier this week after reposting a Super Mario image on Instagram containing the words “jumps like a black man and grabs coins like a Jew”.
 
Balotelli was given until 6pm on Friday to give his observations to the FA and could be charged with improper conduct over the image. The striker has apologised for any offence caused and his observations will include examples of the racist abuse he has suffered during his high-profile career.
 
The Liverpool manager, Brendan Rodgers, meanwhile, has said Adam Lallana’s spell on the sidelines is a consequence of Liverpool’s attack needing more speed and not a reflection on his form since arriving from Southampton for £25m.
 
The England international has been on the bench for six of Liverpool’s last ten matches and completed 90 minutes in only one of the four games he has started during that spell. The 26-year-old has made 14 appearances for Rodgers’ team in total due to an ankle ligament injury suffered in pre-season training.
 
Lallana took his opportunity in the 3-1 win at Leicester City on Tuesday, however, bringing Liverpool level with his second goal for the club before a slight injury prompted a 70th minute substitution. While the bulk of Liverpool’s £117m summer intake have so far failed to impress, and Rickie Lambert was the only new signing to start against Stoke City on Saturday, Rodgers insists Lallana’s lack of playing time stems from enforced tactical changes.
 
He said: “Adam was excellent against Leicester and has been very good since he came in. There have been some changes within the team and tactical changes that have meant he’s missed out on some games but he is playing well. He’s got a great work-rate and he’ll make a big impact in his time here.”
 
The Liverpool manager elaborated: “A lot of our game at the top end of the field since I’ve been here has been based on speed. Whenever Daniel (Sturridge) and Raheem (Sterling) have played we have had that speed in our game. Obviously, with Rickie in the team, that isn’t his strength. His strength is building up the game and his touch is excellent so, when we break forward, you need players with that running ability to break and get beyond.
 
“In some games I felt we have needed that. Raheem will give you that on one side and, on the other for example, someone like Jordan (Henderson) has that running power to get up there, especially away from home. We have seen the contribution from Adam during his time here. It’s no indication of how he’s played that sometimes he hasn’t started. What he does is offer a wonderful threat with the ball. He’s a great technician, he works very hard for the team and he contributes with goals and assists. He’s been excellent since he came in.”
 
The coveted Norway midfielder, Martin Odegaard, meanwhile, is visiting Liverpool’s Melwood training complex this week as he considers several options to leave Stromsgodset. Odegaard became the youngest player to appear in a European Championship qualifier in October when he made a substitute appearance against Bulgaria aged 15 years and 300 days.
 
The midfielder, who has made three appearances for Norway and is wanted by 25 clubs according to José Mourinho, has visited Real Madrid and Manchester United recently and is now assessing Liverpool.


