http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/25/tottenham-mauricio-pochettino-respect-arsene-wenger

Tottenham’s Mauricio Pochettino talks of respect for Arsène Wenger

    Tottenham Hotspur’s Mauricio Pochettino expecting tough game against Arsenal – video    
Mauricio Pochettino says that he dreams of building a dynasty at Tottenham Hotspur in the same way that Arsene Wenger has done at Arsenal.
 
The Tottenham manager is preparing for his first north London derby – his team travel to the Emirates Stadium for the late kick-off on Saturday – and his respect for Wenger is clear.
 
Pochettino is the 12th permanent manager that Tottenham have employed during Wenger’s 18-year tenure at Arsenal and he has talked so far of taking “baby steps” having been appointed over the summer.
 
Pochettino could take a significant step with victory at a stadium where Tottenham have a notoriously poor record, but he knows that he will be judged over the course of the season and, hopefully, many more ahead. One of Tottenham’s broader goals is to finish above Arsenal for the first time since 1994-95.
 
“Tottenham, for me, is a big job and it’s a dream to stay here like him [Wenger], to have the time [at Tottenham] that Arsène has had at Arsenal,” Pochettino said. “For this, I need to show my skill, I need to work hard and I need to get results. We are positive in our job and we will try to go as far as possible.”
     Mauricio Pochettino will experience his first North London derby on Saturday afternoon. Photograph: Henry Browne/Action Images    
Pochettino has less-than-fond memories of the Emirates. When he went there last season with his former club, Southampton, he was undone by a horrible blunder from his goalkeeper, Artur Boruc, whose botched Cruyff-turn allowed Olivier Giroud to score the first of his goals in a 2-0 Arsenal win. Pochettino’s other meeting with Wenger – the league fixture at St Mary’s Stadium – finished 2-2.
 
“We have a good relationship,” Pochettino added, of Wenger. “I have full respect for him, he is a great manager, who has done a great job at Arsenal. An 18-year stay in charge is not easy and it’s a big gap with me at Tottenham!”
 
Pochettino said he had no new injury problems – Kyle Walker, the long-term casualty, is his only absentee – and he is also looking forward to facing Calum Chambers, the defender he helped to develop at Southampton. Chambers moved from St Mary’s to Arsenal for £16m in July.
 
“Calum is a great personality and he has great talent,” Pochettino said. “He deserves his moment now because one year ago, at the start of pre-season at Southampton, he was playing in the development squad. Step by step, he won his place in the first-team. It is not only because he has talent but also because he has great character.”


