http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/sep/18/manchester-city-chelsea-fernandinho-bayern-munich

Manchester City must beat Chelsea to get back on track, says Fernandinho


Fernandinho is adamant that Manchester City must beat Chelsea on Sunday to “make a big statement” and return to winning form following the Champions League defeat to Bayern Munich.
 
That reverse, which came when Jérôme Boateng scored an 89th-minute winner, means Manuel Pellegrini’s team are yet to win in September, with their last victory being the 3-1 defeat of Liverpool on 25 August.
 
Before the loss in Bavaria, City drew 2-2 at Arsenal and lost 1-0 at home to Stoke City, meaning the champions have gone three matches since last winning before playing José Mourinho’s side, who lead the Premier League and are five points ahead of City, at the Etihad Stadium.
 
Asked if it was important to beat Chelsea, Fernandinho said: “Of course. When you lose a game like this at the end, after the game you feel a little bit sad. You have to recover as soon as you can. We have a great game against a big team like Chelsea. The best way to recover is to win that game.
 
“They have started very well. Their new players have shown their quality. I think this will be a great game. We have a good team as well and are playing at home for our supporters. I hope we can win this game.”
 
The midfielder believes beating Chelsea would be a big statement. “In the Premier League the most important thing is not to give the team at the top of the table reasons to keep winning game after game. We don’t want a big space between us. We have to win because there are six or eight points difference between us and Chelsea. We have to shorten it.”
 
The loss to Bayern will not affect City’s confidence, according to the Brazilian. “I don’t think so. We don’t lose confidence,” he said. “We have a lot of confidence to play very well, against Bayern and against Arsenal as well. We just didn’t win both games. Against Chelsea we have to win, to keep working and keep going until we are top of the table.”


