http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/02/chelsea-jose-mourinho-qpr-silence

José Mourinho says Chelsea suffered in silence in narrow win against QPR


José Mourinho’s frustration at what he perceives to be a lack of atmosphere generated by home fans at Stamford Bridge has prompted the Chelsea manager to suggest his side gains “less support” there than at rival grounds.
 
The Portuguese emerged from Saturday’s west London derby success against Queens Park Rangers, witnessed by 41,486 spectators, to claim it had been “like playing in an empty stadium” with the mood around the arena having apparently affected his players. Mourinho aired similar criticisms last season in a bid to provoke a reaction, though he could offer no explanation as to why the atmosphere felt flat.
 
“I think it’s getting worse,” said the Chelsea manager. “When comparing to my previous time at the club, I think it’s getting worse. I don’t question the passion and the love. I’m nobody to question that, and I know clearly that’s not true. Chelsea fans show us their passion for this club every day, but there is a certain ‘line of living’ [way of behaving] at matches at Stamford Bridge. I can clearly say we are the team to get less support in home matches.”
 
A number of potential explanations were put to Mourinho, from high ticket prices to whether the number of corporate fans in the ground had affected the atmosphere, and even if a level of complacency had set in when struggling teams arrive at Stamford Bridge.
 
Yet he could offer no reason for the apparent malaise and his comments, while perhaps serving to deflect from Chelsea’s rather sloppy second-half display, provoked extreme reactions – both in agreement and in disgust – from the club’s fans on social media over the weekend.
 
“The manager’s criticisms were slightly ill-advised because the fans pay good money to watch highly-paid footballers,” said Tim Rolls of the Chelsea Supporters’ Trust. “But the reality is, while I’d rather the ground was a bearpit, that’s not what the Premier League is like these days, with the changed demographic of spectators coming to games, not least because there are an ever increasing number of tourists in the ground. On pricing, it’s around £50 a game, so an awful lot of young people can’t afford to go very often.
 
“That’s a problem across the Premier League. [A lack of] atmosphere issue is not just a Chelsea issue, either: at Old Trafford last week the atmosphere wasn’t what it was, just as it isn’t at Liverpool, either. Home fans are made to sit down, but away fans can stand up. Home fans who do stand up and sing at the Bridge have received letters from the club saying a repetition could mean their season ticket or membership being revoked. That doesn’t help.”
     Oscar scored Chelsea’s first goal against QPR with a brilliant piece of skill. Photograph: Francesca Ceciarini/SIPA/Rex    
There is support within the trust and other fan groups for the introduction of singing sections within the arena, where younger fans might congregate together and ticket prices could be subsidised accordingly. Certainly, QPR’s travelling support were raucous in celebrating Charlie Austin’s cleverly taken equaliser, a back-heeled goal, which was a reward for the team’s new-found resilience away from home and the inroads they made on the break after the interval. Yet Eden Hazard’s penalty, awarded for Eduardo Vargas’s clumsy contact, maintained the leaders’ four-point advantage at the top.
 
Mourinho acknowledged the sloppiness of his players’ display, making his dissatisfaction clear at half-time. “He was not happy and told us we hadn’t played well and had to do better,” said Willian.
 
“It was dangerous for us, to be only 1-0 up. So we had to improve. He was right because even then QPR came on to the pitch for the second half and scored their goal to get level. But at least we reacted. We had to. We had to run more, keep the ball better, get at them more. Hazard ended up making that great dribble and winning the penalty.”
 
The hosts’ lead had been established by their most impressive performer, the revived Oscar, whose toils from the early part of this year feel increasingly distant.
 
His wonderful opening goal, dispatched with the outside of his right foot, illuminated the occasion even if Mourinho, perhaps conscious of complacency creeping in, on and off the pitch after an unbeaten start to the campaign, felt compelled to deliver his criticisms post-match to ensure everyone, from players to fans, remains on their toes.
 
Man of the match Oscar (Chelsea)


