http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/25/ryan-giggs-manchester-united-chelsea-louis-van-gaal-david-moyes

Ryan Giggs: Chelsea are head and shoulders above everyone else


Ryan Giggs believe the Premier League has become like the Championship as “anyone can beat anyone”, though the Manchester United assistant manager admits Chelsea occupy a level above.
 
United are fourth after beating Arsenal 2-1 on Saturday, a first away win of the season for Louis van Gaal.
 
Only 11 points separate Southampton in second position and Stoke City in 11th, and Giggs believes the top tier is now a meritocracy despite Chelsea leading the Saints by six points.
 
Asked when United will again win the title, Giggs said: “It is a process, I mean I think everyone will agree Chelsea are head and shoulders above anyone else but it’s a process and you just have to try to keep improving and see where that takes you.
 
“It’s never easy winning the league or never easy beating teams in the Premier League. We’ve seen this season it’s getting more like the Championship has been year after year. It’s a case where anyone can beat anyone so you have to be at your best every week. Hopefully we will be, we’ll keep improving, get players back on the pitch and there’s enough talent in that dressing room to take us up the league.”
 
Giggs said Van Gaal demands a lot: “He obviously demands a lot, he’s somebody who’s got plenty of experience, likes to play attacking football, likes to give youth a chance so there’s plenty of synergy there with the history of Manchester United and the traditions. It’s great to learn from somebody who’s managed at the top for so long and just try to learn as I go to try to prove myself as a coach.
 
Of his role as the No2, Giggs said: “It’s an apprenticeship, it’s starting all over again. It’s a totally different mindset from being the one being spoken to, to actually giving out the instructions, delivering training sessions and doing things throughout the week to prepare for the game.”
 
He also wished David Moyes good luck in his new job in charge of Real Sociedad. “It was a disappointing season overall but you have to look forward and learn from your mistakes, look to improve all the time. It was a tough year for everyone but I hope David does well. It’s a great chance for him and a great challenge to be coaching in a different country which probably not enough British managers do. It’s brave and I’m sure he’s excited and I hope he does well.”


