http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/oct/03/jose-mourinho-cesc-fabregas-perfect-addition-chelsea-arsenal

José Mourinho: Cesc Fàbregas was the perfect addition for Chelsea


José Mourinho has described Cesc Fàbregas as a “perfect” addition to Chelsea’s ranks and believes the Spaniard is relishing life in new surroundings as he prepares to confront his former club, Arsenal, for the first time since returning to the Premier League.
 
Fàbregas made 306 appearances for the north London club after initially joining their academy from Barcelona as a 16-year-old. He eventually agitated successfully for a move back to Camp Nou, completed in 2011, before resuming his career in England this summer following a £30m move to Chelsea, and his impact has been immediate. The World Cup winner has already supplied six assists for his new team, operating impressively in a deep-lying midfield brief and thriving in supplying the prolific Diego Costa.
 
The midfielder retains a strong affection for Arsenal, an affinity with which Mourinho is comfortable ahead of this derby, though he is already settled at the club having moved into the enclave of Chelsea players living close to the club’s Cobham training ground. “He loves Chelsea already,” said the Portuguese. “He’s so happy: the way he plays, the way he’s a member of the squad, the way he lives in this little blue village. It is like he’s here for a long time. If you ask him now if he regrets the move, I’m sure he’d say no. If you ask him if he’d choose a different option [if given the chance], he’d say no. And if you ask him where he thinks he’ll be in five years’ time, he’d say he sees himself here in five years’ time. He is Chelsea.
 
“It’s not about him ‘replacing’ Arsenal in his heart. He’ll never lose that respect and connection with a club where he arrived as a kid and left as a top player. I wouldn’t be happy if he came here saying: ‘I don’t care about Arsenal; my life at Arsenal is over, I forget everything; now it’s just about Chelsea.’ I don’t like that approach. Many times, when a player says things like that, it’s not true. And if it is true, it’s also not good. So I’m completely happy with his approach.
 
“After Chelsea I worked for Internazionale and Real Madrid and I never stopped saying Chelsea were my club and that I wanted to come back one day. But I gave everything to Inter and Real. Fàbregas doesn’t forget Arsenal, the time he spent there, the contribution it made in his fantastic career, and that deserves a place in his memory and his heart. And the fact he’s giving everything to Chelsea with such professionalism and enthusiasm is exactly what we want of him.”
 
Arsenal had first refusal to re-sign Fàbregas when it became clear the player wanted to leave Barcelona this summer – he felt opportunities in the first team at Camp Nou would be more limited – but chose not to exercise that option having secured Mesut Özil in the interim. Arsène Wenger claimed the player’s preference was to return to the Emirates Stadium. “But when Cesc left we bought Özil to buy an offensive player,” he said. “We have [Santi] Cazorla, we have [Jack] Wilshere, we have [Aaron] Ramsey, we have [Alex] Oxlade-Chamberlain, who are all offensive players. We were not in the need to buy offensive players.
 
“Once he went to Barcelona, he could have gone anywhere else after. I personally believe that deal [with Chelsea] was done a long time ago, early 2014. I didn’t speak to Cesc directly. I was informed that he might go to Chelsea, but when I was informed I thought the deal was already done. Everybody has the freedom to go where they want. We have to respect their decisions. But we were in search of more up front and more defensive opportunities than creative midfielders. We have many. I wish him well. He is a great player and a person and player I love. Once he left us, he left us. We are all professionals and we have to accept that.”
 
Fàbregas retains the ability to wound his former employers on Sunday having slotted in seamlessly to Chelsea’s lineup as a supply-line for Costa – who will start the match – and his new team’s forward line. “I wanted him because I know the player he is,” added Mourinho. “And I know he was good for the philosophy we wanted for the team. I knew that he’s one of not many players who can play as a No8 or a No10, so he gives me chances to play him in both positions and build a midfield knowing that.
 
“The fact that he was made in England and played for so many years in English football – that’s a plus. He doesn’t need that adaptation. He comes back home. We knew he was the perfect for us. We tried. We tried hard, and we succeeded. But every game so far, without exception, he has been phenomenal for us.”


