http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/nov/27/liverpool-brendan-rodgers-ludogorets-change-season-champions-league

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers: Ludogorets can ‘change our season’


Brendan Rodgers said Liverpool’s display against Ludogorets had the capacity to “change our season” despite the frustration of missing out on a first win in five matches because of an 88th-minute equaliser.
 
Liverpool were denied a precious win, one to ease the pressure on their manager, by Georgi Terziev’s late header after goals from Rickie Lambert and Jordan Henderson had compensated for a dreadful mistake from the goalkeeper Simon Mignolet, whose fumble allowed Dani Abalo to score a third-minute opener.
 
The late setback did not alter Liverpool’s predicament in Group B. They would have needed to beat Basel at Anfield in a fortnight with a win in Sofia and that equation remains the same after their draw and the Swiss team’s home defeat by Real Madrid.
 
“To go a goal behind so early on, you really need a team that is together and I think the character of the team came out,” Rodgers said. “We spoke before the game that this needs to be the night to change our season and for that we needed to show the character in our team. We are disappointed with the goal we conceded in the end but it is irrelevant, we need to beat Basel in the final game.”
 
Liverpool’s performance represented a tentative step forward after recent poor displays culminated in Sunday’s 3-1 defeat at Crystal Palace, though their vulnerability at set pieces and Mignolet’s erratic form remain concerns.
 
On his first-choice goalkeeper’s mistake, Rodgers said: “Hopefully it will not be an issue with his confidence. It was a disappointment for the team because we wanted a solid start and to go behind so early was very frustrating, but thankfully it didn’t cost us overall.
 
“The pitch was difficult for outfield players and goalkeepers, it was very bobbly, especially around the box. Thankfully it didn’t cost us overall and the players showed great character to come back.”
 
Though disappointed with the late equaliser, Rodgers insisted he would have accepted Liverpool’s position in the final game when the draw for the group was made.
 
“It was very frustrating at the end but we needed to come and put on a performance to encourage us going forward and one that gave us a chance of qualifying from the group and we had both of them,” he said.
 
“The reaction to going behind was fantastic and we saw the real character of the team. We fell behind to a team that has been really strong at home in the Champions League and showed real spirit to come from behind. Of course, it is frustrating at the end because we had defended so well.
 
“It could have been three- or four-one but I said at the start that this group would come down to the last game. To have the last game at Anfield, in front of our own supporters, needing to win: I would have taken that at the start.”
 
Steven Gerrard was moved into a more advanced role against Ludogorets with Joe Allen and Lucas Leiva forming a central midfield barrier. Rodgers said: “I felt we needed more of a solid structure. The plan was to control from behind and stay together. Steven probably ran as much as he did in 2009 as a No10 and I thought he was excellent. His job was to get forward, support Rickie Lambert and also use his experience.”
 
Lambert’s goal was his second in two games after a difficult start to his Liverpool career. The striker said: “It was my first start in the Champions League and it was good to score. We are devastated about the goal at the end but it was about the performance – win, lose or draw – and the performance was better. We have answered some of our critics about Sunday against Crystal Palace.”


