http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2014/nov/28/golden-goal-terry-mcdermott-liverpool-aberdeen

Golden goal: Terry McDermott for Liverpool v Aberdeen (1980) | Scott Murray


Poor old Steven Gerrard! A player fated – let’s assume away any unexpected 26-in-a-row winning runs or surprise transfers to Chelsea – to end an otherwise storied career without a Premier League winners medal. Should this be the case, the only appropriate response is … ah well. His European and domestic trophy haul still qualifies as Not Half Bad, while his status as a bona fide Liverpool legend is assured, rubber-stamped, unquestionably secured. That’s a cast-iron Guardian guarantee!
 
But should Stevie G still experience the odd dark night of the soul, he need simply rationalise it thus: his lack of Premier League success is simply the price paid for such a lofty position in the Anfield pantheon. Had Liverpool won a few titles since Gerrard arrived on the scene in 1999, logic dictates world-class players would have been ten-a-penny at Anfield during that time. But in a (relatively) undistinguished period in the club’s history, it’s been a little easier to stand out. Swings and roundabouts.
 
This isn’t to denigrate what Gerrard has achieved. After all, spin this logic around, and it’s a damn sight harder to win FA, League, Uefa and European Cups when you’re in a side that’s far from the best of its era. It’s simply to wonder how we’d view the player had he been a fixture in the Liverpool team between, to pick a couple of random dates from the ether, 1974 and 1983. Would he – could he – have made the same impression in more exalted company?
 
Perhaps not. And again this is no denigration of Gerrard, because it’s happened to the best of them. Here comes Terry McDermott, a player who checks all the boxes Gerrard ticked, plus a few more thrown in for good measure. A spectacular portfolio of goals? Check. Scored when they really mattered, in the biggest games? Check. One of Liverpool’s top 20 goalscorers of all time, after a career in midfield? Check. A local hero? Check. European Cup medal? Check check check. And those league titles? Well, yes, a few checks there, too, but let’s not labour the point.
 
And yet … well, it’d be preposterous to say that McDermott is a forgotten man. But he patently doesn’t enjoy the exalted status of Gerrard, and certainly seems strangely under-rated given the level of his talent and achievements. This is partly because McDermott plied his trade four decades ago, each decade like a century in these increasingly myopic and self-absorbed times. Much of his best is only captured on grainy film from the early years of colour TV, while Gerrard has been acting out his heroics in the high-definition here and now. But it’s mainly because McDermott’s era was populated, and later defined, first by Kevin Keegan, then by the Dalglish-Souness-Hansen triumvirate. Superstars all, in Liverpool’s golden age. And what a golden age it was: you know a club was onto something when someone like McDermott – this also applies to Ray Kennedy – ends up as something of a connoisseur’s choice.
 
Poor old Terry McDermott! So let’s take this opportunity to celebrate the achievements of one of the greatest, and perhaps one of the most under-appreciated, players ever to wear Liverpool red. One of his signature moments might have inadvertently set Liverpool and Manchester United on their respective journeys of woe and wonder through the 1990s and 2000s, but let’s put that to one side for a minute. In the meantime, here’s a mini Joy of Six containing some of Terry Mac’s contributions to the LFC legend ...
 
 1) His performance in the 1974 FA Cup final. So yes, he was playing for Newcastle United, but that’s not really the point. This Cup final isn’t quite the one-sided mismatch of legend, though it did indeed end up as a rout. In the first half, Newcastle gave as good as they got, and McDermott was at the heart of everything, prompting mainly from the middle, but popping up on both flanks as well in a one-man whirlwind effort to keep his side on the front foot. Liverpool, to borrow that phrase from the BBC commentator David Coleman, undressed Newcastle in the second half. Quite literally in McDermott’s case. At the end of the game, a young Phil Thompson took the black-and-white shirt off McDermott’s back, exchanging it for his own red one, allowing the Liverpool-born Newcastle player to claim his runners-up medal wearing the colours of the club he supported as a boy. This match now looms large in Liverpool lore, Shankly’s last game and all that, the old man timing his exit in the manner only the true showmen can. But it’s epochal, too, McDermott’s performance – along with that of his 19-year-old team-mate Alan Kennedy, destined to score two European Cup winning goals for Liverpool – a harbinger of things to come. Terry Mac was embroidering the LFC story before he’d even turned up.
 
2) The opening goal in the 1977 European Cup final. McDermott became one of Bob Paisley’s first signings when he moved from Newcastle to Anfield a few months after that Cup final. He initially struggled to make his mark, and didn’t even consider himself a fixture in the team when he starred in Liverpool’s first European Cup final three years later. Borussia Mönchengladbach enjoyed the best of the opening exchanges in that match – Reiner Bonhof hit the post – but then McDermott kick-started Liverpool’s renaissance, scampering down the inside-right channel from deep, anticipating Steve Heighway’s perfectly weighted pass inside from the same wing, waiting patiently for the ball to run across his body, then adroitly tickling it on and into the left-hand corner. Bang. No Terry Mac, no European Cup? Argue among yourselves, but either way, that’s surely one of the most under-rated European Cup final goals.
 
3) A hat-trick in 16 minutes against Hamburg in the 1977 Super Cup. European Cup winners medal notwithstanding, McDermott rates this performance as his coming of age. Anfield certainly agreed, his name rattling around the rafters in the wake of this ludicrously good display against the winners of the European Cup Winners’ Cup. During the summer, Kevin Keegan had swapped Anfield for the Volksparkstadion, and so in November found himself facing the team he’d helped to become European champions six months earlier. Liverpool had started slowly in the league – Nottingham Forest would eventually win the title – and Keegan was confident his new side would prevail. “We’re beginning to run into form,” he trumpeted before the first leg in Germany. “Liverpool, on the other hand, are tired physically and mentally. People don’t realise they are only human. I would probably have lost the edge if I had stayed.” Words just asking for trouble. Liverpool easily held Hamburg to a 1-1 draw in Germany, then in early December obliterated their guests 6-0 at Anfield, a humiliation for Keegan on his return. McDermott was the star turn on a forgotten evening of brilliance. He chested down a raking Ray Kennedy pass to lash home from the right-hand corner of the box on 40 minutes, latched onto a loose ball to power down the inside-right channel and send a rising missile into the top right on 55, then picked up another gorgeous pass from Kennedy, this time down the left, to fire home his hat-trick goal on 56. One of the great European performances – and that’s just the straight-backed, statesmanlike Kennedy, swanning around like Beckenbauer. That evening, Terry Mac was simply out of this world.
 
4) The goal of the season. McDermott’s self-identification as a satellite of the first XI during 1977, rather than an integral part of the team, seems now even stranger when one considers his contribution to that year’s FA Cup semi-final against Everton. It was the first Merseyside derby contested at that stage since 1950, when his manager Bob Paisley settled matters with a strange lob through a packed Maine Road penalty area. There was a crucial lobbed goal in this one, too, though this was a peach, a floater over an advancing David Lawson from the edge of the box. Liverpool eventually made it to Wembley at the expense of their neighbours yet again. McDermott’s chip was named the BBC’s goal of the season, the first of many personal gongs to come, a collection that’d eventually include the PFA and football writers’ player of the year awards, and the glittering ITV Golden Goal trophy.
 
5) His goalscoring record. During a nine-year career at Liverpool, McDermott scored 81 times in all competitions. That puts him in the top 20 at the club, alongside Fernando Torres, a goal or two behind Luis Suárez and Albert Stubbins, and a goal or two in front of sepia-toned legends Jack Cox, Arthur Goddard and Berry Nieuwenhuys. Only four players have scored more times in Europe for the Reds: Gerrard, Michael Owen, Ian Rush and Roger Hunt. This is some company to be keeping. He needed 329 games to do it, but all of these other lads – a certain Steven Gerrard apart – were posted up front.
 
6) That goal against Tottenham Hotspur. In the 1980 FA Cup quarter-final, McDermott flicked the ball up on the right-hand edge of the box, then sent it whistling into the top-left corner. An unstoppable menace. And yet, astonishing as it is, that strike isn’t even his best against Spurs. It’s early season 1978 at Anfield, and McDermott, with Liverpool six goals to the good against a newly promoted Spurs, is guarding the post at a corner. The ball is pumped into the box, and cleared by Kennedy. Dalglish finds David Johnson down the right; Johnson, with an insouciant swipe of the outside of his boot, sprays the ball left to Steve Heighway, who whips a cross to the far post. Arriving, after a 90-yard lung-buster of a run, is McDermott, who crashes a header into the top right, one of the most brazenly direct and spectacular goals in the English football canon. “Tottenham’s defence were as open-mouthed as the rest of us,” reported Patrick Barclay in the Guardian. A 90-yard-run. Liverpool were already 6-0 up.
 
Ordinarily, that would be McDermott’s golden goal. But he’s a player with an absurd portfolio of stunning strikes, and so we’re spoilt for choice. How about, then, the one which arguably changed the entire direction of English football? In the second round of the 1980-81 European Cup, Liverpool were drawn with upwardly mobile Aberdeen in a hotly anticipated Battle of Britain. The teams were level in the tie for all of five minutes, whereupon Liverpool took the lead in the first leg at Pittodrie with one of the smoothest team moves you’ll ever see, one that culminated in a superlative finish.
 
Ray Kennedy floated a pass down the left wing for Dalglish, and scampered off on the overlap. He wasn’t required. Dalglish slipped the ball inside, ostensibly for the onrushing McDermott. But the midfielder let the ball roll on for Johnson, while continuing to bomb down the inside-left channel. Johnson, without a second’s hesitation, threaded a first-time ball through the Aberdeen back line and into the area. The pass was perfectly weighted, but not quite perfectly directed, pushing McDermott a touch to the left. Jim Leighton came across to cover his near post, the danger surely over. Nope! McDermott, travelling at full pelt, checked his run to get onto his left foot, and from a tight angle chipped over Leighton – whose position was textbook – and into the right-hand side of the unguarded net. Astonishing. While all this was going on, Aberdeen midfielder John McMaster was on the touchline, throwing up. Liverpool won the return leg at Anfield 4-0, and went on to lift the European Cup for the third time. The greatest goal ever scored by Liverpool? It’s got a claim, even if you could use one or two other McDermott efforts to argue the toss.
 
Unfortunately, sat in the Aberdeen dugout was one Alex Ferguson, seething at being so comprehensively turned over. Mental notes were taken, cards were marked, a perch snapped into focus in the viewfinder. Oh Terry Mac! What fresh hell did you unleash?


