http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/dec/02/arsene-wenger-arsenal-chelsea-premier-league-title-race

Arsenal’s Arsène Wenger convinced Chelsea can be caught in title race


Arsène Wenger says that Chelsea cannot be considered as the champions-elect, despite their impressive and unbeaten start to the Premier League season while he remains convinced that Arsenal can win the title – if not this season, then before his contract expires in 2017.
 
Chelsea entertain Tottenham Hotspur on Wednesday night, seeking a return to winning ways after the 0-0 draw at Sunderland on Saturday, which allowed Manchester City to cut the gap to them at the top of the table to six points. And Wenger insists that José Mourinho and his team can be caught. “You cannot say that [six points] is not catchable,” he said. “After 13 or 14 games, you cannot say that the title race is over.”
 
Wenger signed on for another three years at Arsenal after last May’s FA Cup victory and, despite his team’s inconsistent start to the season, his faith in the squad is unshakable. The club has suffered from a glut of injuries, with Wenger attributing some of them to the after-effects of the World Cup but he believes that when everybody is available, they can compete.
 
“Of course,” Wenger said, when asked whether Arsenal could win the title during his latest three-year cycle. “We have not started very well but we never had the squad together since the start of the season. It was a post-World Cup start. I think we have what is requested to do it.”
 
“We have fought many times for the title. People always remember who won it but the fight has been very tight for long periods in the last eight or nine years. We have a big competition in England, we have to accept that. The Premier League level goes always up and this season, Chelsea has started very well. They will be difficult to catch but everybody will fight to come back on them.”
 
Wenger added that Laurent Koscielny, who returned in the 1-0 win at West Bromwich Albion on Saturday after eight weeks out with tendinitis in both of his achilles tendons, was still feeling discomfort and would need to be managed carefully.
 
The centre-half will be assessed before Wednesday night’s visit of Southampton, together with the left-backs Kieran Gibbs (ankle) and Nacho Monreal (knee), as well as the winger Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain (knee). Wenger is confident that either Gibbs or Monreal will be fit.
 
He reported that Wojciech Szczesny (hip) and Theo Walcott (groin) would be out while Mathieu Debuchy, who is back in training after a long-term ankle problem, could return at Galatasaray in the Champions League next Tuesday.
 
“Koscielny could be a problem because his inflammation of the achilles is not completely gone,” Wenger said. “He had two tendons which were bad. The left has gone completely and the right is still a little bit there so, if he has no reaction, he can cope with it. If he has a reaction, you have to be cautious.”


