http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/05/transfer-rumours-rickie-lambert-chelsea

Football transfer rumours: Rickie Lambert off to Chelsea? Wait, what?


Picture the scene at Stamford Bridge a year from now. The Chelsea players are on the pitch, smiles on their faces, scarves around their necks, national flags around their waists, another league trophy in their hands. Ignore the soul-crushing inevitability for now and look at the pitch. It is littered with empty champagne bottles, blue confetti and Blue Nun. For some of those players in the centre of it, this is a scene as familiar as breathing or walking or buying solid-gold cars with personalised number plates, cannons that shoot salmon eggs to ward off bears and a pink pool table that flips over and doubles up as a bed. For others, it’s their first time and they are feeling like Marla. But they’re trying too hard and it shows. Their smiles are a bit too forced, their jumps are a bit too high, their off-key singing is a bit too loud. And right smack dab in the middle of them is Rickie Lambert.
 
Wait, what? (This is how your wait, what? should sound.) Yes, yes, you read that right, that Rickie Lambert, the one who can’t get into the Liverpool side ahead of a one-hipped Daniel Sturridge and the as-useful-to-his-club-as-as-an-underwater-hair-dryer-to-Bruce-Willis Mario Balotelli. Pardon? No, no, Rickie doesn’t have an identical twin who is much better, much quicker and much younger, though the Mill had to Google that just to be sure. Anyway, off to Chelsea he supposedly is, as a replacement for Didier Drogba who has been told to check in for an extended stay at the Hotel Du One. However, should the move fall through and José Mourinho not get the man he wants, the man he wants may end up at Hull or Crystal Palace and Mourinho will instead go for Emmanuel Adebayor. Wait, what? Yes, yes, you read that right, that Emmanuel Adebayor.
 
The pain of losing Lambert will hurt Liverpool fans so should you know one, do the decent thing and give them a call to see how they are doing. See if you can get them out of the house for an hour or two, to the bingo or the lawn bowls, just to get their minds off things, you know? Tell them that it will all be all right and that anyway you have good news for them regarding the club. This should pique their interest. When they look up, wipe away their tears, hand them a tissue to remove the excess snot and look them in the eye. Then whisper the magic words “Asmir Begovic”. That should put them right, provided, of course, Liverpool’s stamped-addressed envelope containing a cheque for £15m arrives at Stoke before Arsenal’s does.
 
Dick Advocaat knows everything, he knows myself, he knows morality, spirituality, good and bad health, he knows fatality might haunt him, he knows everything, he knows Compton, he knows lawyers, advertisement and sponsors, he knows wisdom, he knows bad religion, he knows good karma, he knows post-modernism and he knows the need for irony in life. That is why, in a bid to strengthen Sunderland’s defence for next season in the Championship, he is going to sign Micah Richards.
 
Finally, we go back to that scene at Stamford Bridge. Up in higher echelons of the west stand, Roman Abramovich still looks like he could do with a decent trip to a barber’s in Soho and in the lower echelons, Mourinho is musing upon his next humble brag to the ever attentive press pack. The fans shield their faces from the mid-afternoon sunshine and, in between bouts of boisterous singing, some chatter about their player of the season. One suggests Cesc Fàbregas and another suggests Mikel John Obi. That last line is a running joke that those particular fans still like to make, even with Mikel now making waves for Real Madrid. They know the answer. It’s the player who made the difference at the fag end of the season. It’s the player posing beside Lambert. It’s the player Chelsea swapped for £30m plus Filipe Luís. It’s Koke.


