http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/08/tottenham-arsenal-harry-kane-premier-league-match-report

Tottenham’s Harry Kane has no limits after goals against Arsenal


Tottenham Hotspur were in such a state of ecstasy there was a danger they were going to lose themselves completely and change the stadium’s name to White Hart Kane. A statue of the great man outside. His face painted on every seat. All four stands named after him.
 
Anything feels possible in the world of Harry Kane at the moment. Who knows in what absurd place this will end? At this rate of improvement, Kane is a shoo-in for next year’s Ballon d’Or and you would not put it past him to lead Tottenham to Champions League glory (after snubbing a £200m move to Real Madrid) and then score a hat-trick for England in the Euro 2016 final. Sir Harry Kane has a nice ring to it.
 
Not many people predicted Kane’s electrifying rise, especially during unpromising loan spells at Leicester City, Leyton Orient, Millwall and Norwich City, and indeed it is hard to think of another player who has blossomed so quickly and unexpectedly. Even Arsène Wenger, who knows everything about football, struggled to come up with an example after Kane’s 21st and 22nd goals of the season sealed Spurs’ victory over Arsenal. “I didn’t know him,” Wenger said. “Maybe unexpectedly for Tottenham. But he suddenly looks to grow at a very high speed. When you think that you have Soldado out, on the bench, and Adebayor not even considered, that shows you the stature he has taken in this team. He is not only quality, but hard-working as well.”
 
Yet while it was Kane who stole the show by equalising after 56 minutes and then heading in the winner with four minutes left, Tottenham deserve credit for an outstanding team performance. They responded with supreme force after falling behind to Mesut Özil’s early goal and it is clear that Mauricio Pochettino’s intensive training sessions are paying off. Arsenal could not cope with their energy and this was the sixth game Tottenham have won in the last five minutes this season. Take away those late winners and Tottenham would be in mid-table, not fifth.
 
“We had a great pre-season,” Kane said. “As the season has gone on we’ve got fitter and fitter. As the season has gone on, we’ve got better and I think that showed again. We looked stronger and I think we can keep that going for as long as possible. I feel fitter. I feel the fittest I’ve ever felt, the best shape I’ve ever been in. The gaffer did a lot of work on getting us fit and it’s really starting to work.
 
“I think it’s both fitness and confidence. I think when you’re winning, the adrenalin is pumping and everyone is ready to go so we’ve got to keep the energy levels. There’s not been a good moment in pre-season, if I’m honest! There were double sessions, times when you were pushing yourself to the limit but you’re doing it for a reason. This is the reason that you’re seeing now.”
 
Pochettino is making a difference. Tottenham are embracing his pressing style, while his willingness to use young players is commendable. Like Kane, Ryan Mason has had to wait before establishing himself. Mason is 23 and spent last season on loan at Swindon Town, yet he was excellent alongside Nabil Bentaleb, another academy product, against Arsenal. The midfield dominance of Mason and Bentaleb goes to show that throwing money around is not always the answer.
 
“This is our philosophy,” Pochettino said. “It was our philosophy at Espanyol, Southampton and now here. Why not? If you have players with potential for first team, why not? This is our identity. We have to give these players opportunities to show their value. Maybe we are brave. When we put a player in it is because they are ready.
 
“Sometimes you win and sometimes you lose, but when you believe the player is ready, why not give them the opportunity to play? In this case, we are brave, that is true. In the first season [at Espanyol] we gave 25 debuts to players from the academy. I think a lot of players stood out, but I don’t want to give their names because then you’ll link them with us.”
 
Pochettino believes that coaching young players requires patience. “It is difficult,” he said. “Very difficult. It is easier to coach senior players, because they are already developed. You need to be patient and I think my staff have this quality.”
 
As for Arsenal, their first defeat since New Year’s Day was a jolt, but they could be boosted by the return of Alexis Sánchez for Tuesday night’s home game against Leicester after hamstring trouble. Everyone needs a talisman.


