http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/01/tottenham-hotspur-chelsea-premier-league-match-report

Tottenham Hotspur 5-3 Chelsea | Premier League match report


This was the evening Chelsea’s title pursuit, for the first time this season, was made to look fragile. Even unlikely. A side who pride themselves on an ability to ally thrilling attacking play with stingy defence were picked apart and embarrassed across the capital, wilting in the face of Tottenham Hotspur’s eager energy and attacking threat, and eclipsed by a homegrown forward who has never played better. Memories of this riotous occasion will sustain Harry Kane through the winter.
 
The England Under-21 international scored twice, earned a penalty and supplied Nacer Chadli with the hosts’ fifth as the majority in this arena revelled in a victory that felt barely credible. José Mourinho’s teams are not thrashed in this way. Never before had he conceded four while in charge of Chelsea, and this was only the second time in a 14-year managerial career the Portuguese had watched powerless as his charges shipped five. The new year has already seen their lead at the top shredded. Manchester City boast an identical record at present courtesy of a winning goal plundered by Frank Lampard up at the Etihad stadium earlier in the day. Those at the top are separated only on alphabetical order. The race has another twist to digest.
 
Perhaps fatigue played its part, with this a third awkward away trip in four matches in a congested period, but frailties which had not previously been apparent were exposed too often across Chelsea’s back line for comfort. Spurs may have been clinical, but the visitors were brittle and all the complaints about the non-award of a penalty when Oscar prodded a ball against the grounded Jan Vertonghen’s arm smacked of deflection tactics. There were real deficiencies here to spark concern, rather than conspiracy theories to expose.
 
Nemanja Matic was unable to stamp his usual authority on this contest. Gary Cahill has quelled the threat of Lionel Messi and Luis Suárez at times during his career, but Kane left him dazed and confused. The centre-half’s frustration erupted when the ball was stuck under the forward’s body on the touchline late on, the kicks to the back and calf apparently not noticed by the referee, Phil Dowd. The Football Association may choose to scrutinise that incident more carefully in the days ahead.
 
In truth, the entire Chelsea defence appeared flustered and uncharacteristically vulnerable, disconcerted by the aggressive running of Chadli and Andros Townsend down the flanks but, most of all, by Kane’s excellence. The forward is improving with every outing, his display here the best of a fledgling career to date from the moment he collected on the left and cut in-field with Oscar hesitant. Free of a challenge, the striker merely skimmed a shot into the corner from 20 yards and, instantly, the hosts’ conviction was stoked.
     Tottenham Hotspur’s Harry Kane celebrates his equaliser. Photograph: KIERAN GALVIN/EPA    
Tottenham were rampant in what little time remained up until the interval, Christian Eriksen scuttling forward to liberate Chadli behind Cahill. Thibaut Courtois charged to the edge of his area to intercept but his compatriot’s shot was poked beyond the goalkeeper and on to the far post, with Danny Rose bravely belting in the rebound to record a first league goal here since a derby winner on debut against Arsenal in April 2010. He was bruised while converting, though not as wounded as the visitors. Chelsea were still wheezing in disbelief when Cahill upended Kane as the striker appeared on his blindside. Townsend, the third youth-team graduate turned goalscorer, thumped in the resultant penalty.
 
Mourinho attempted to wrest back some control by introducing Ramires at the interval but his team’s rearguard were shellshocked. When Chadli pinned back Branislav Ivanovic and shifted possession inside to Kane, the young English forward turned Matic far too easily and curled a fourth through John Terry’s legs with Courtois helpless. The fifth, converted by Chadli, also flicked off the centre-half. “Chelsea are one of the best in the world, at Real Madrid level,” offered Mauricio Pochettino. This was the first time in eight attempts that he has beaten a Mourinho team. “A great victory. We deserved the victory. We were better than Chelsea.”
  
 Related: José Mourinho fumes at ref Phil Dowd and says Eden Hazard is unprotected 
   
They were still anxious at times, particularly in the period after Diego Costa had pilfered an early lead. Eden Hazard had collected Courtois’ 60-yard throw, retained his balance under Rose’s challenge and struck the far post with a shot. Costa dangled a leg at that effort from an offside position but Oscar collected at the far post and, when he fired back across the diving Hugo Lloris, the forward poked in legitimately from close-range. The visitors’ other rewards were plucked from a game of catch-up, Hazard skipping forward to exchange passes with Cesc Fàbregas to make it 4-2 and Terry tapping home the Belgian’s cross for 5-3. A thrill in the attacking play was retained, but this was a performance undermined by slackness at the other end. The advantage at the top is no more, with only one win secured in five away games. Christmas has not been kind to the leaders.
 
Man of the match Harry Kane (Tottenham)


