http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/21/raheem-sterling-liverpool-agent-contract-900000

Liverpool cancel contract talks with Raheem Sterling after agent attacks club


Liverpool have cancelled contract talks with Raheem Sterling after his agent was quoted as saying that the England winger would “definitely not be signing” a new contract, even if he was offered £900,000 a week.
 
Aidy Ward, who represents Sterling, was due to meet the Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers and chief executive Ian Ayre on Friday to discuss his client’s contract situation but after the emergence of Ward’s comments, the Merseyside club have put discussions on hold.
 
Ward has subsequently disputed the comments that were published in the Evening Standard on Thursday and has reportedly threatened legal action, but this does not appear to have had an effect on those inside the club.
 
“I don’t care about the PR of the club and the club situation. I don’t care,” Ward was quoted as saying. “He is definitely not signing. He’s not signing for £700, £800, £900 thousand a week. He is not signing.
 
“My job is to make sure I do the best with them [my clients]. If people say I am bad at my job, or they are badly advised it does not matter.”
 
Ward also launched a personal attack on Jamie Carragher – calling him “a knob” – after the former Liverpool legend was critical of the way that Sterling and his representatives had handled the contract negotiations.
 
“Carragher is a knob. Everybody knows it. Any of the criticism from current pundits or ex-Liverpool players – none of them things matter to me. It is not relevant.”
 
Ward’s comments will be of keen interest to both Manchester United, who registered their interest in Sterling on Wednesday. Manchester City and Chelsea are also thought to be keen on the England winger, who recently rejected a five-year, £100,000-a-week offer from Liverpool.
 
“I am not worried,” continued Ward. “Worried is making a decision not knowing what is going to happen. Every Premier League club will make a bid for him.”


