http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/08/football-transfer-rumours

Football transfer rumours: Alexandre Lacazette to Chelsea?


The Rumour Mill didn’t get where it is today voting Bullingdon Boys into power, but in the new political climate we’re happy to peddle rumours about Gareth Bale going to Manchester United as part of £200m “spree” this summer. According to the Express, Louis van Gaal has been given “a huge transfer war chest” and will use it to bring the Welshman, the Borussia Dortmund duo Ilkay Gundogan and Mats Hummels, and the Southampton right-back Nathaniel Clyne to Old Trafford. We’re not convinced, but time will tell.  
 
José Mourinho will celebrate his juicy new Chelsea contract by bringing the Valencia left-back José Gaya and the Lyon striker Alexandre Lacazette, who is also wanted by Paris Saint-Germain, Liverpool and Arsenal, to Stamford Bridge. Hoffenheim’s Roberto Firmino is wanted by Liverpool and Chelsea, who will have to outbid Manchester City’s offer of £20m if they are secure the scrawl of the 23-year-old Brazilian playmaker. City are also reported to be monitoring Luis Enrique’s position at Barcelona, with a view to replacing Manuel Pellegrini with the 44-year-old from Gijón if he quits the Camp Nou this summer.
 
Mario Balotelli will be drop-kicked out the Anfield exit door come season’s end and will continue earning money for old rope in his native Italy with Sampdoria, whose Serie A rivals Juventus want to sign the lank-haired South American adonis Edinson Cavani. The Colombian will be taking his leave of PSG this summer and would rather cosy up to the Old Lady than ink a deal with Arsenal or Manchester United, who are also keen.
 
The Borussia Mönchengladbach striker Max Kruse and the FC Köln central defender Kevin Wimmer are both on Tottenham‘s summer shopping list and could move to White Hart Lane for a combined total of around £14m.
 
Those green blobs you can see inching their way across the Chelsea radar are shaped a bit like Everton defenders John Stones and Séamus Coleman, two Everton players who have caught the eye of the Premier League champions. Meanwhile at Anfield, Daniel Sturridge’s latest spell on the sidelines will prompt his manager Brendan Rodgers to tut impatiently and then get on the phone to Aston Villa to inquire about the possible purchase of Christian Benteke.
 
In other news relating to Aston Villa strikers, Darren Bent could find himself being snapped on a free by Tim Sherwood just as soon as his four-year-deal with the Midlands club expires next month. “The door isn’t shut on Darren,” said the Villa manager Tim Sherwood. “He knows me and he knows he would get good chances to score goals. I’m going to have a chat with him. We might need to add a striker and I know this boy and he’s available.” Restricted to just eight appearances for Villa this season, Bent has spent five months on loan at Derby County, for whom he scored 12 goals.


