http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/21/said-and-done-chelsea-arrigo-sacchi-ghana

Said & Done: Chelsea; Arrigo Sacchi; and Ghana’s witch problem

Story of the week 
Chelsea banning five fans from the ground for “unforgivable actions” – and extending John Terry’s contract. José Mourinho: “That is what the club wants, that’s what John wants, and that’s what’s going to happen.”
 
• 2012: Chelsea set out their thinking on JT’s lapse: “John will continue to be captain of this club. We’ve taken disciplinary action and we think it is firm and appropriate action for the circumstances. It’s not a decision taken lightly.” CEO Ron Gourlay: “John’s played over 550 times for the football club … We believe this was an error of judgment. It was out of character for John.”
 
• Leading last week’s analysis of the Paris Métro story: a) Sepp, advocate of solving racism with handshakes: “I condemn the actions of a small group of Chelsea fans. There is no place for racism in football.” And b) Mail Online readers, including Disqusted: “Seems to me this whole incident was orchestrated for the benefit of the media”; and ICSENSE: “Can’t even have a few beers and get on a train without being called a racist anymore.”
 Meanwhile 
Rallying round Arrigo Sacchi after his “I’m not racist but there are too many blacks” theory caused a row: a) Carlo Ancelotti: “I give my regards to Arrigo Sacchi. Many enemies, much honour”; and b) Fabio Capello, with a clarification: “What he said is not racist.”
 
• Sacchi’s final word on a rough week: “These days just mentioning ‘black’ or ‘coloured’ has everyone off their leash … the moralists, the politically correct. If I haven’t been able to explain myself in 42 years, I’ll have to stick around another 20 just to be understood.”
 Award of the week 
The annual Issa Hayatou Trophy of Peace – awarded in the name of Fifa’s head of African football – presented to a noted “man of peace, defender of Africa and of young people”: Equatorial Guinea despot Teodoro Obiang. Organisers praised Obiang for stepping in as last-minute Africa Cup of Nations host, “saving Africa from unprecedented shame”.
 From the boardroom 
Last week’s FA headliners:
 
• Nigeria FA president Amaju Pinnick – who denied his 2014 election win was “illegal, violent and abusive” – making a visit to Sepp in Zurich for talks. Fifa.com reported: “After a period of internal instability, [Nigeria’s FA] is now looking forward to a busy year.”
 
• Ghana FA spokesman Ibrahim Sannie Daara, rejecting financial allegations against his FA in a live radio interview. “Anyone whose aim is to destroy the Black Stars is a witch. There’s a concerted campaign to demonise us. You are going bonkers aren’t you? You are going bonkers.”
 Record of the week 
Former Portsmouth CEO Peter Storrie, discussing his new job making Australia’s Central Coast Mariners “a break-even organisation”: “My long-term record stands up to scrutiny.” • Storrie’s pay at Portsmouth as they headed towards collapse – 2008: £450k basic plus £750k bonus; 2009: £600k basic, £500k bonus plus “football bonuses” – £3,000 per win, £1,500 for a draw.
 Manager news 
Unveiling of the week: Brazilian club Cene – founded in 1999 as part of the Moonies’ World Peace and Unification movement - unveiling their new coach to the press while president José Rodrigues and vice-president Paulo Telles traded “gross insults” in the background. Footage showed the pair “locked in a power struggle … with shouts of ‘asshole’, ‘dick’ and ‘jerk’”. Coach João Batista: “I’m finding this uncomfortable.”
 
And last week’s exits:
 
• Argentina: Colón president Eduardo Vega weighing up their first game of the season and the impact of coach Reinaldo “Mustard” Merlo, and sacking him. “There were only small differences of opinion, no dramas. But I had to act.”
 
• Germany: 20 Jan, Mainz executive Christian Heidel defending Danish coach Kasper Hjulmand’s position. “It’s nonsense to say he’s too quiet and reserved. He’s learning to speak German in record time. Of course when he’s emotional he sticks to basic language, but in training and meetings he’s fine. We’ll soon have him swearing in German.” 16 Feb: Has him swearing in German.
 Endorsement of the week 
Italy: Sampdoria president Massimo Ferrero, asked if his new high-cost signing Samuel Eto’o is “a rip-off or a champion”: “He’s somewhere in between. I don’t need to comment on Eto’o. Eto’o is Eto’o. Mourinho wondered how old he was … we haven’t worked that out yet either.”
 Tidiest marketing 
Poland: Legia Warsaw’s month so far: a) losing an appeal against a two-game Uefa stadium ban and fine for racist fan violence; and b) launching a new military-themed fan loyalty card system. Legia say fans will earn points to achieve new military ranks as a nod to the club’s history, including “private”, “warrant officer” and “colonel”.
 Faux pax of the week 
Argentina: Boca fans, looking to intimidate opponents before their Copa Libertadores game against Palestino, stoning their own team’s bus by mistake. Reports called the incident “an act of reprehensible confusion”.
    
¡INSÓLITO! Hinchas de Boca Jrs. confunden el bus de su equipo con el de Palestino y agreden a sus propios jugadores. pic.twitter.com/fYXppy70L4
&mdash; Willy Asva (@willy_asva) February 19, 2015    Plus: love news 
Diego Maradona, losing an appeal in his alleged unpaid Italian tax case; and spending £130k on Valentine’s presents for model Rocío Oliva, including two £20k handbags. Diego – who had the word “bitch” tattooed on his chest as a tribute to Rocío last month – told media: “Every day I love her more.”
    
DIEGO MARADONA SE TATUÓ EN SKULL TATTOO ESTUDIO pic.twitter.com/sf0wmlOIZC
&mdash; Skull Tattoo (@tattoo_skull) December 26, 2014  

