http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/apr/16/eden-hazard-player-of-the-year-jose-mourinho

Chelsea’s Eden Hazard not the standout Player of the Year of recent seasons


José Mourinho reckons anyone who suggests that Eden Hazard should not be crowned the Premier League’s Player of the Year is just seeking attention, and we all know that Mourinho has no truck with attention-seekers. It is clear, however, that some of Hazard’s peers are prepared to risk being scorned by the Portuguese, as proven by the presence of five other players on the shortlist announced on Thursday evening for the Players’ Player of the Year award.
 
If intimidation is the sincerest form of flattery, then many top-flight players began endorsing Hazard’s class long before the Professional Footballers’ Association’s ludicrously premature election got under way, as the Belgian has been the most fouled player in the Premier League (and the Champions League) this season. And despite the regular attempts to thwart him with skulduggery, Hazard has continually unhinged opposing defences during a campaign in which he has come far closer to the consistency that his manager challenged him to produce last term.
 
Mourinho has had to rely probably more than he would have wished on Hazard’s ability to elevate his team above the containable, and Hazard has usually risen when required. His exquisite sleight of foot and the powerful grace and balance of his dribbling – the way he gets low and skitters round defenders like a motorbike taking a sharp corner – have often made him a marvel to watch, as well, importantly, as decisive.
 
We only have to cast our minds back to last Sunday for a telling example: there was no immediate threat to Queens Park Rangers when Rob Green bungled a kick in the 87th minute, but Hazard turned it into the game’s defining moment – and a valuable one in Chelsea’s title chase – with a jagged run and composed pass that teed up Cesc Fàbregas for the winning goal.
 
Of course we do not yet know exactly how significant that win will be, nor how Hazard or any of the other contenders will perform as the season reaches its most pressurised period, but if the PFA thinks it makes sense to draw conclusion before the full story has been told then all we can do is hope Gordon Taylor does not get called up for jury duty any time soon.
 
The fact that Hazard could, in theory, still perpetrate a series of blunders that triggers another Chelsea collapse – and Alexis Sánchez could recapture his staggering early-season form to spur Arsenal to the title instead – is not the only reason it does not feel quite right to declare Hazard the player of the season. There is also the sense that, despite his increased productivity, Hazard has still not been quite as influential as he should have been.
 
Although he is regularly said to be among the most gifted players in the world, he has not stood out in the way that, for example, Luis Suárez, Gareth Bale and Cristiano Ronaldo have in recent years. Indeed, has he done as much with his talent as Harry Kane has, or affected the outcome of as many games?
 
If Kane finishes as the Premier League’s top scorer while playing for a so-so side in his first full season in the top flight, then that would be an individual achievement worthy of tangible recognition.
 
There is even a case for him gaining the rare honour of collecting both the senior and young player of the year awards, as could Hazard, David de Gea and Phillipe Coutinho, though chances are that many players split their votes by backing De Gea, Kane or Coutinho in the youth category while giving the senior award to Hazard – not simply because they couldn’t be bothered checking whether Hazard was 23 at the start of the season, but because of ambivalence borne of the lack of an overwhelming case in favour of any or the others.
 
Kane deserves to figure higher in the rankings than Diego Costa because he has plundered his many goals despite inferior supply and experience. Indeed, it would not have been a surprise to see Charlie Austin on the shortlist for the same reason. Something similar could be said for the inclusion of De Gea on the senior shortlist ahead of Thibaut Courtois, who has not had to rescue his team as often as the Spaniard did in the first half of the campaign, when Manchester United were regularly chaotic in defence.
 
It is heartening, though, to see that two goalkeepers – Courtois and De Gea – were included on the six-man shortlist for the young player award, as theirs is a position that is too often neglected. Unless, of course, their inclusion is simply an admission of the shortage of magical outfield players this season.
 
Defenders are often overlooked, too, and no members of the Premier League’s best rearguard have made it on to the shortlist. But that is understandable. Southampton’s back four have functioned as such an impeccable collective that it is difficult to isolate one of Nathaniel Clyne, Toby Alderweireld, José Fonte or Ryan Bertrand for acclaim.
 
Similarly, praising that defence without acknowledging the contributions of the goalkeeper Fraser Forster and the midfielders Morgan Schneiderlin and Victor Wanyama to the team’s solidity seems wrong. If Southampton had equal quality further forward, they would perhaps be pursuing a more suitable award in the form of a trophy.


