http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/19/newcastle-united-tottenham-hotspur-john-carver-mauricio-pochettino

Newcastle United fans carry out boycott threat for defeat by Tottenham


Newcastle United’s sixth straight defeat of an increasingly acrimonious campaign was sustained in front of their smallest crowd of the season on Sunday as supporters heeded calls to boycott the 3-1 defeat against Tottenham Hotspur at St James’ Park.
 
Aggrieved at Mike Ashley’s failure to invest part of his considerable cash reserves in an alarmingly slender, currently injury-ravaged squad, around 500 Newcastle fans demonstrated against the club’s owner in nearby Leazes Park before kick-off. Although the official attendance was announced as 47,427 at a ground customarily filled to 52,000 capacity it appears all season ticket holders were automatically included regardless of whether they actually turned up. Certainly the amount of empty seats in the stands seemed more indicative of a figure somewhat closer to the 40,000 mark.
  
 Related: Newcastle United 1-3 Tottenham Hotspur | Premier League match report 
   
While a planned showed of mass post-match dissension outside the Milburn Stand did not materialise, the organisers will feel a point was made. Easily dominated by a Spurs side who rose to sixth place in the Premier League as Harry Kane scored his 30th goal of the season, in all competitions, Newcastle remained stuck on 35 points, harbouring, albeit remote, relegation fears.
 
“This job’s never easy,” said John Carver, the head coach who has won only two of his 15 games since succeeding Alan Pardew. “I’m sick, disappointed, angry. Another defeat isn’t good enough. You could see the nerves, the tension among everyone on the pitch.”
 
Even so Carver refused to criticise the no shows and demonstrators. “Possibly it wasn’t helpful,” he said. “But people are entitled to do what they want and have their opinion. I don’t think it affected what went on. The players are professionals and situations off the pitch should not affect them. We lost the game because we weren’t good enough. It’s probably the most difficult situation I’ve ever been in but I’m not going to give up. I have to find a solution. I’ve just got to get on with it because nobody else is going to do it.”
           Newcastle’s manager, John Carver, was disappointed and angry about the loss to Spurs but does not attribute it to the actions of fans, instead blaming poor play and giveaways    
In contrast Tottenham’s Mauricio Pochettino celebrated Kane’s achievement in becoming the first Spurs player since Gary Lineker 23 years ago to reach the 30-goal mark. “This is Harry’s first full season in the first team and we need to push him to try to improve his level because he’s young and has the potential to improve,” said Tottenham’s manager. “It’s a fantastic achievement and I congratulate him. He deserves this moment because he has worked a lot. It’s an historic thing.
     Newcastle United fans shout and hold banners outside St James’ Park. Photograph: David Whinham/Demotix/Corbis    
The victory was only Tottenham’s second in five matches and came after a disappointing draw at Burnley a fortnight ago and last weekend’s home defeat against Aston Villa.
 
“We wanted to put it right,” said Kane. “And we played really well. I’m delighted with the 30 goals but the important thing is that we keep winning. I’m very proud but there’s still five games left so hopefully I can get a few more goals.”


