http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/27/jose-mourinho-roman-abramovich-chelsea-style

José Mourinho strongly defends Chelsea style against 'boring' criticism


José Mourinho says Roman Abramovich is very happy with the style in which Chelsea have moved to the verge of a first Premier League title in five years and the manager is dismissive of the modern-day trend to assess a team’s flair purely in terms of how much possession they have.
 
He argued that the most recent criticism of the team, who are 10 points clear at the top of the division, was rooted in the emphasis placed on ball retention with the game’s basic requirement – to outscore the opposition – apparently overlooked.
 
Mourinho’s defence of the way his side play followed the goalless draw at Arsenal on Sunday when home supporters bellowed a chorus of “boring, boring Chelsea”. John Terry subsequently praised his team’s resilience – they have not trailed in a league game since New Year’s Day – and suggested “tippy-tappy football” alone was not enough to claim titles. Mourinho echoed his captain’s comments and takes comfort in Abramovich’s satisfaction with the side’s progress.
 
The club’s owner, who craves an expansive style of play, has attended their past three matches and he visited the away dressing room at the Emirates Stadium to congratulate the players after a result that left Chelsea within five points of the title. “He is very happy,” said Mourinho. “I saw him hugging the players in the dressing room after the game and, yes, I think he’s happy and I think every Chelsea fan is happy if we win the title. If we do, we will have had a fantastic Premier League season.”
 
Much of the flak has been a reaction to the more pragmatic approach adopted by Mourinho since suspensions and injuries disrupted his first-choice XI – the leading scorer Diego Costa, for example, may not be risked until the weekend – but that will not take any of the sheen off the achievement that awaits if they beat Leicester City and Crystal Palace in the next five days. Mourinho has rejected suggestions his team, who have topped the division since the opening round of fixtures, are boring and has consistently pointed to the fact that only Manchester City have scored more goals, 70 in 34 league games to Chelsea’s 65 in 33.
 
“People talk about style and flair but what is that?” he said. “Sometimes I ask myself about the future, and maybe the future of football is a beautiful, green grass carpet without goals, where the team with more ball possession wins the game. The way people analyse style and flair is to take the goals off the pitch. It’s the football they play on the moon – where the surface is not good, with some holes but no goals.
 
“Everyone speaks about teams playing fantastically well because they ‘had great ball possession’. It looks like the goals aren’t important. They conclude a team that scores as many as we do is boring but a team with 70% of the ball who don’t score isn’t. Maybe, when my grandsons play, football will be a game without goals and we’ll just enjoy people passing the ball. But when football is played without goals, you will say it’s boring. You will say bring the goals back. For me, it’s still about putting the ball in your opponents’ net, and keeping it out of your own.”
 
Mourinho claimed the apparent change in emphasis was down to “some managers who can only teach their guys to keep the ball”. He rejected the notion his departure from Chelsea in 2007 had been partly due to Abramovich’s frustration that the team were not playing with the swagger of a Barcelona. “For me, the ‘beautiful game’ is to go to every match knowing exactly the way you have to play and what you have to do,” he said. “At Arsenal we were brilliant. Brilliant. A game where we were brilliant from the first minute.
 
“Us boring? It cannot be true. It’s all about establishing the criteria. Who scored the most beautiful goals in the Premier League? If that is a criteria, Chelsea did it collectively [with André Schürrle’s goal at Burnley in August]. If the concept is the number of goals, City scored more than us. But 18 teams scored fewer than us, so there are 18 teams who are more boring than us. Do you think, in the Premier League, there is one manager who will say that Chelsea don’t deserve to be champions? I think, out of the other 19 managers, the huge percentage will say Chelsea deserve to win the league.
 
“If a good team is the team with most points, we are the best team. If a good team is the team with most victories, we are the best team. If the best team are the side with fewest defeats, we are the best team. If the best team is the one that leads, we are the best team. If the best team is the side with fewest conceded, we are the second best team. In any criteria you can find, we are the best team or the second best team. It’s as simple as that.”


