http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/25/raheem-sterling-liverpool-perfect-young-talent

Raheem Sterling says Liverpool is perfect place for young talent


Evidence of Raheem Sterling’s contentment at Liverpool assumes more importance in the absence of a signature on a long-term contract, the one assurance over his future that matters. His belief that Brendan Rodgers’ team offers the best place for young talent to flourish, therefore, will not be treated as an empty platitude at Anfield.
 
Sterling’s assessment that Liverpool is home to opportunity was given fresh credence by the squad taken to Turkey for Thursday’s Europa League second leg against Besiktas. Among the usual young members were the 19-year-old Jordan Williams and 18-year-old Jerome Sinclair as Rodgers rested Philippe Coutinho before Sunday’s Premier League game with Manchester City, despite a lengthy injury list. Youth will be given a major role in finishing the job started by Mario Balotelli’s 85th-minute penalty when Liverpool return to the Ataturk Stadium.
 
At the vanguard will be Sterling, a comparative veteran of 114 appearances and 22 goals for Liverpool, who provides a potent reminder of his own 20 years. “I remember the Gerrard header but I can’t remember too much else,” he says of his employer’s 2005 Champions League triumph in Istanbul. “I think I must have watched it at home in Wembley.” Time does not always appear to pass so fast.
  
 Related: Brendan Rodgers says Turkey trip favours Manchester City  at Anfield 
   
It is five months since Liverpool and Sterling’s agent, Aidy Ward, opened negotiations on a five-year deal for the England international, who is under contract at Anfield until 2017, and a stand-off has ensued over the terms on offer. Rodgers made his thoughts clear on the impasse a fortnight ago when he insisted Liverpool had offered “an incredible deal” and would not pay “way, way above what a player is worth at a certain time of his career”. Amid delicate negotiations Sterling insists he “just wants to talk about football” before the meeting with Slaven Bilic’s side but insists the contract saga is not a distraction, an argument supported by his performances this season.
 
“I speak to my representative every day and he has told me to just concentrate on playing football and him and the club will deal with it; that is the most important thing. I am concentrating on winning games for Liverpool and hopefully it will be done soon,” Sterling says.
 
Sterling, Jordon Ibe, Alberto Moreno and Emre Can – 20, 19, 22 and 21 respectively – are in contention to start at the Ataturk. Whatever accusations may come Sterling’s way over the delay in signing a new deal, the forward is fully aware of what he owes to Liverpool and Rodgers.
 
“I don’t think there is a better place for young lads than Liverpool at this moment in time,” says Sterling. “The manager has blooded a lot of young players like myself and Jordon. He puts you in at the deep end and it seems like at that moment you are ready. You look at Jordon against Everton, he was the best player on the pitch, which is credit to the manager as well. Every young player is getting a chance when they show they are working hard on the training pitch and that is credit to the manager for giving them the chance to shine at the highest level.”
 
Sterling denies he has mentored Ibe during the winger’s impressive progression into the first team. “I don’t tell him he should do this or that,” he says. “I’m not a senior professional. I have not played 200 games for Liverpool or anything like that.” Besides, the 20-year-old has his own development to work on. Sterling has scored 10 goals for Liverpool this season but is the first to admit the tally should be higher despite having to adjust to a lead striker role during Daniel Sturridge’s absence through injury.
  
 Related: Manchester City’s scattergun approach wounds grand plan for Europe | Barney Ronay 
   
“I think my form has been a bit stop-start which I suppose is natural for a young player,” he admits. “If I want to get my game to the next level then I need to be consistent. That is something I am working on. I’ve got 10 goals but I could easily have had 15 if I had taken half of my chances. I am very critical of myself and always look at what I can improve on.
 
“The United game [when Liverpool lost 3-0 at Old Trafford in December, their last league defeat] was massive for me. I had a few chances to win us the game and I missed them. I went home and watched the clips of my misses over and over again. That was a low day but I realised I had to be calm and more relaxed in front of goal. I had to pick myself up quickly.”
 
Besiktas (4-2-3-1, probable): Cenk; Serdar, Franco, Nukan, Hutchinson; Veli, Uysal; Tore, Sosa, Olcay; Ba.
 
Liverpool (3-4-2-1, probable): Mignolet; Touré, Skrtel, Lovren; Ibe, Can, Allen, Moreno; Sterling, Lallana; Sturridge.
 
Referee D Skomina (Svn)
 
ITV4, kick-off 6pm


