http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/20/chelsea-manchester-city-youth-cup-final-first-leg

Chelsea catch Manchester City cold in Youth Cup final first leg


In this clash of English football’s two richest clubs that offered a repeat of the 2008 Youth Cup final the ratio of young English hopefuls to those hailing from overseas was of prime interest.
 
The answer was six in the Manchester City XI and eight for Chelsea plus Ruben Summat, a Maidstone-born midfielder who has represented Scotland at age group level.
 
This should please Greg Dyke, the Football Association chairman, who a year ago branded City and Chelsea as “depressing” for them having only two and three England players, respectively, in their ranks.
 
Dyke was not here but he could also take encouragement from an opening leg that was keenly attended by 6,421 souls and which featured slick play, particularly when each side moved forward. The beginning was frantic. As a brass band punctuated a sunny evening with some pleasant bars of Blue Moon, the City anthem, by the 10-minute mark the score was already 1-1.
 
The visitors opened festivities via a strike of ruthless simplicity from Tammy Abraham, a Camberwell winger-striker. Positioned on the right by his manager, Joe Edwards, Abraham had wandered inside when the ball came to him. A split-second later Christian Kjetil Haugh was beaten by a finish that rocketed into the goalkeeper’s top right-hand corner.
 
With this start Chelsea illustrated their pedigree in the competition. This was a fourth consecutive final for the reigning champions, who beat Fulham last year and Blackburn Rovers in 2012, but were defeated by Norwich City the following season.
 
Yet City’s equaliser arrived almost instantly and showed the quality in Jason Wilcox’s squad. Brandon Barker, the competition’s top scorer with six goals as this game began, indicated he has creative abilities, too. The 18-year-old Mancunian collected the ball and turned on the after-burners to beat a host of defenders before slipping it to Isaac Buckley. The No9, who has been with City since 13 and is now 18, ran along the left of the area and slid a finish beyond Bradley Collins, the visiting keeper.
 
This would have impressed a crowd that included Manuel Pellegrini, the City manager, who was sitting alongside the sporting director, Txiki Begiristain, and the chief executive, Ferran Sorriano. Aleksandar Kolarov and Phil Neville were also in attendance at what was the highest-profile match yet in this new Academy Stadium.
 
As the game continued the sense was reinforced that the champions are deadlyserious about starting a conveyor belt of home-reared talent. The issue, as with Chelsea, is how many become first-team regulars. Of the 2008 City vintage that won this competition, only Dedryck Boyata is now in Pellegrini’s squad. At Chelsea John Terry, who is 34, remains the last youngster bred at the club who became an established force. Yet in these days of Financial Fair Play regulations there is a fresh consciousness of the need to bring one’s own players through.
 
Last week Chelsea’s Under-19s won the Champions League and José Mourinho said: “From that team that won the Uefa Youth League, four belong to my squad. Four are my players, first-team players who train with the first team every day and develop with the first team. When they’re not selected with the first team – and normally they’re not selected - they go back and play there.
 
“Their development is easier when they’re training every day with the first team, doing pre-season, playing some matches now and again. They belong to a process. I can’t have 10 of these young players in my squad but I can have three or four and we did that with [Ruben] Loftus-Cheek, [Isaiah] Brown, [Andreas] Christensen and [Nathan] Ake – and [Dominic] Solanke a few times.”
 
Of these Brown and Solanke, who are both English and began this match, can be optimistic due to the senior experience offered by the Portuguese. Despite this, though, Chelsea are still set to buy in yet more potential from abroad. Paying Atletico Paranaense £4.5m for Nathan, a 19-year-old Brazilian playmaker, hardly sends a positive message to the club’s own next generation.
 
At City the academy director, Mark Allen, also offers encouragement. He said: “We are on a very clear plan in terms of what we are trying to do in the longer term with recruitment and retention of boys.”
 
City can be proud that heading into this final 11 Mancunians had featured on the way, and there were six on show here. These were the two centre-backs, Cameron Humphreys-Grant and Tosin Adarabioyo, Kean Bryan, a holding midfielder, Aaron Nemane, who is French-born but has lived in Manchester from a young age and is English qualified, Buckley and Barker.
 
Less happy for City, though, is the 3-1 lead Chelsea take back to Stamford Bridge for Monday’s second leg, after Abraham’s second on 20 minutes was added to by Solanke in the closing moments.


