http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/feb/22/liverpool-southampton-brendan-rodgers

Liverpool win at Southampton despite starting without a striker | Barney Ronay


Never mind the St Mary’s stadium cauldron of hate, which no matter what Brendan Rodgers might say, was actually quite genteel, more a cauldron of occasionally noisy disapproval. Never mind the referee, Kevin Friend, who selflessly redirected the ire of the crowd from Liverpool’s returning players with a performance that basically involved just letting everybody get on with it, not so much poor refereeing as very little refereeing at all on a filthy afternoon made for moments of slip-sliding controversy
 
Never mind, also, that Southampton will feel unlucky to lose a match in which they pushed Liverpool back in the second half. The fact is for all its messiness, and some moments of good fortune, this was a triumph for Rodgers in principle and practice.
 
At the start he fielded a team with five players age 22 or under. Leading 1-0 away from home, and playing without any fluency, he brought on two attacking full-backs and a centre-forward. At the end of which Liverpool’s manager had his best win of the season, a 2-0 defeat of a top-four team who played well here without being able to finish; during which Raheem Sterling led from the front and reconfirmed his status as a player of genuine incision and poise.
 
Whatever his ultimate fate, it seems likely Rodgers won’t die wondering if he could have been just a little more defiantly cutesy with his attacking formations. Here Liverpool’s manager sent out one of his Magic Brendan line-ups, with three centre-forwards on the bench and none on the pitch for a match Liverpool were hoping to win. Daniel Sturridge’s absence was understandable given he has only recently returned to fitness. Mario Balotelli’s absence is always understandable one way or another. And yet there was immediate vindication of sorts as Liverpool took the lead after two minutes.
 
First though, the hate. It is easy to forget how deep Adam Lallana’s roots are here, a player who joined Southampton age 12 and became for the home support a consolation prize during the hard times, a kind of budget brand Le Tissier as Southampton rose from the third tier. They are still unhappy at the way Lallana agitated for his Liverpool move, and the stadium was ringing with the first chants of “what a waste of money” as Philippe Coutinho took the ball from Lazar Markovic 40 yards from goal.
 
Coutinho took two paces forward and produced a moment of pure inspiration, a dipping right-foot shot that twanged down over the line off the bar. The Brazilian, who is only 22, has been superbly fluent in his passing and movement in recent weeks. Here a single moment of sublime, explosive skill was pretty much the sole moment of illumination in a messy, cantankerous first half.
 
The Premier League is often criticised for its lack of player development, the absence of not just a golden generation, but any kind of generation making its way through the bramble-strewn path from academy and under-21 set-ups. Here on a messy, damp afternoon was the best the league has to offer, with a bloom of youthful talent in both squads.
 
For Liverpool, Jordon Ibe has made the biggest impression in recent weeks, a 19-year-old who already looks the model of a high-class young attacking footballer. English football’s preoccupation with the physique of its young players has often been mocked, but in Ibe’s case his power and athleticism look pretty state of the art, reflecting a vogue at the highest level for muscular, imposing, skilful wide players.
 
Here he lined up once again on the right, and found the going tough at times. This was in part because of an energetic performance from another 19-year-old, Matt Targett, making his fourth appearance, but whose encouraging night will be overshadowed by a calamitous mistake for Liverpool’s second goal. It was a cruel moment for Southampton. First, Morgan Schneiderlin gave the ball away to Sterling. His interchange with Alberto Moreno – 20-year-old to 22-year-old – ended with a misplaced cross that saw Targett slip and play the ball back to Sterling. His low shot was deflected but decisive.
 
Isolated for long periods as Southampton pushed Liverpool back, Sterling deserves credit for a performance of periodic scuttling menace. It is easy to overlook the progress Liverpool’s versatile No31 continues to make. He has 12 goals after a slow start to a season ignited by a fine performance against Bournemouth in the FA Cup, and glossed by that recuperative holiday in Jamaica.
 
By the end here Liverpool’s fans had reeled out the Poetry in Motion chant, presumably with something difficult and modernist in mind, full of stumbles and stutters, but the odd sublime turn of phrase. Either way for Brendan’s Babes – with eight outfield players age 26 and under – this was a messy, heartening, perhaps even rather significant victory.


