http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/16/jermain-defoe-sunderland-tottenham-andros-townsend

Tottenham hoping Jermain Defoe does not come back to haunt them


Andros Townsend says that he does not want to face Jermain Defoe in Sunderland colours on Saturday and who can blame him? The Tottenham Hotspur winger knows all about how lethal the striker can be, having played alongside him previously at White Hart Lane and there is also the small matter of how Defoe always scores on his debut.
 
Defoe has done so at each of his professional clubs – West Ham United, Bournemouth, Tottenham, Portsmouth and even FC Toronto, where he endured a frustrating time last year and from whom he has signed for Sunderland.
 
The 32-year-old hopes to receive international clearance from the Premier League in time to play for Sunderland at White Hart Lane, where he would be assured of a warm welcome by both sets of supporters. Townsend described Defoe as a Tottenham “legend” – a status that the player ensured over two spells at the club, during which he scored 143 goals.
 
In between times, he spent 12 months at Portsmouth and his popularity among Tottenham fans was never more evident than when he played against them at Fratton Park in September 2008. Before he took a penalty in front of the travelling support, he heard them chorus his name. When he scored, he did not celebrate.
 
“On a personal level it would be great to see him again and great for the fans to see him back here again,” Townsend said. “But on a professional one, I hope he doesn’t play against us. He is always hungry to get out on that pitch and score goals. Everyone knows about Jermain and what he can do. You give him two yards and he will get the ball out from his feet and have a shot on goal. I wish him all the best but not against us.”
 
Defoe trained with Tottenham’s development squad last week, as he sought to fire his fitness ahead of a Premier League move – he has not played since last October at Toronto – and Townsend joked that he stood to be an insider in the Sunderland camp for Saturday.
 
“I only hope that he wasn’t spying on us and that the manager hadn’t left any of his notes lying around,” Townsend said. “He’s a fantastic character who served this club well. If he plays for Sunderland, I am sure the fans will give him the reception he deserves.”


