http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/02/liverpool-philippe-coutinho-new-deal-world-class

Liverpool put their money on Philippe Coutinho with deal to 2020


Philippe Coutinho has agreed terms on a new contract to 2020 at Liverpool and Brendan Rodgers claims the Brazilian has the potential to be world-class. The 22-year-old is under contract until 2018 but has been offered an extended, improved deal as Liverpool look to secure several players for the long term. An agreement has been reached relatively swiftly with Coutinho and his representatives and a signature on the contract is expected imminently.
 
Coutinho has proved an astute purchase by Liverpool since joining for £8.5m from Internazionale two years ago. Rodgers believes he can reach the highest levels of the game but the Liverpool manager admits that is dependent on the playmaker improving several aspects, including his finishing. “We have seen young Phil come into his own over the last couple of months purely because of the movement up front,” Rodgers said. “He is the type of player who is creative and looks for the last pass but for that you need the movement in front of the ball and people to penetrate in behind. At the beginning of the season we didn’t quite have that in the team so he was having longer on the ball and maybe getting caught on it more.”
 
“But you can see he is in a real good moment. He is playing a lot of games and we are trying to manage him but his performances are at a really high level which is great to see because he’s a little magician with the ball.
 
“His courage and bravery to get on the ball is fantastic. If he can continue to improve, and there are areas where he can improve like his goalscoring, then he can get into that bracket of being world class.”
 
Rodgers believes the Real Madrid pair of Luka Modric and Toni Kroos are examples of the kind of player that Coutinho could develop into over the coming years.
 
The Liverpool manager explained: “Modric doesn’t have a big goalscoring record but he is a world class player. He is a continuity player who takes the ball in the middle of the field, can make the passes, serves the ball from behind and gets the odd goal from outside the box. He opens the door for the team in the centre of midfield. Toni Kroos is another of that type.
 
“Those two maybe don’t get that many goals but their role is to create the game for others, not necessarily to score 15 or 20 goals a season. Phil’s numbers will improve but it’s not the be all and end all if he doesn’t get 20 goals. His functions are elsewhere in the team.”
 
Steven Gerrard will be fit to make his 700th appearance for Liverpool in the FA Cup fourth-round replay at Bolton Wanderers on Wednesday, Rodgers confirmed. The Liverpool captain missed the West Ham win as a precaution against a hamstring injury, having played 120 minutes against Chelsea four days earlier, but is available for the replay and Saturday’s Merseyside derby at Everton. “We felt it was too much of a risk on Saturday but he trained great this morning and is fine,” the manager said.


