http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/29/liverpool-danny-ings-burnley-transfer-window

Liverpool join transfer window scramble for Burnley’s Danny Ings


Liverpool have joined the pursuit of Burnley’s Danny Ings and could finalise a deal before Monday’s transfer deadline providing they allow the striker to remain on loan at Turf Moor until the end of the season.
 
Tottenham Hotspur and David Moyes’s Real Sociedad are also in the running for the England Under-21 international, who is out of contract in the summer but is deemed too important to Burnley’s survival prospects for the manager, Sean Dyche, to consider selling him in the January window. All interested parties appear willing to pay a nominal fee this month to secure Ings’s services in the summer.
 
The 22-year-old has seven goals in 19 Premier League appearances this season, having adapted comfortably to the step up from the Championship, where he scored 21 times during Burnley’s promotion-winning campaign last term.
 
Dyche will not countenance the immediate departure of Ings, with his team 17th in the table and reliant on the striker’s goals to remain in the top flight. Burnley have also struggled to add to their squad this month, with Dundee United rejecting a bid for the midfielder Stuart Armstrong.
 
Ings’s goalscoring record, combined with the chance to beat off competition by securing a cut-price deal in this window, has made the forward an attractive proposition for several Premier League clubs even if he does spend the remainder of the campaign on loan at Turf Moor. Tottenham have been linked with a £7m move for the former Bournemouth striker and a deal that would give Burnley cash but allow them to keep the player for the short term may suit all parties.
 
“There’s just been contact, constant contact, but we all know where we stand,” said Dyche on Thursday. “I think contractual situations are private to players. Danny’s made it clear he’s going to be here until the end of the season, we’ve made it clear he’s going to be here until the end of the season. After that, who knows – watch this space. He wants to be here. He’s made that clear, and said that numerous times, so I’m happy to go along with his words.”
 
Liverpool had tried to bring forward Divock Origi’s transfer from Lille this month but the French club were unwilling to release the Belgium international even for a premium on his £9.8m transfer. Origi had to spend the season on loan at Lille under the terms of last summer’s transfer but will arrive at Anfield at the end of this campaign.
 
Ings’s possible arrival would improve Brendan Rodgers’s options for next season, although doubt remains over Mario Balotelli’s long-term future at Anfield.


