http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/08/brendan-rodgers-steven-gerrard-liverpool

Brendan Rodgers says Liverpool need a plan to replace Steven Gerrard’s quality


Brendan Rodgers has said Liverpool need a strategy for replacing Steven Gerrard and admitted he is under no illusions about the difficulty of filling “the void” created by the club’s out-going captain.
 
The Liverpool manager refused to comment on Gerrard’s admission that he would have signed a contract extension at Anfield had an offer been made last summer instead of November. Liverpool’s captain since 2003 subsequently agreed an 18-month contract with LA Galaxy but Rodgers stated: “There is nothing more to add. Everything has been said on that situation that needs to be said.”
 
Rodgers’s attempt to draw a line under Liverpool’s handling of Gerrard’s contract was a necessity, he explained, given the 34-year-old remains integral to his plans for the remainder of this season and the task of devising a plan to replace a player of that quality. Liverpool’s recent track record in that department does not bode well, with Wilfried Bony’s proposed transfer to Manchester City another reminder of their failure to compensate for Luis Suárez’s departure to Barcelona last summer. The Swansea City striker was a target for Rodgers but Liverpool were unable to agree personal terms with the Ivory Coast international, among other things.
 
“There is no doubt Steven moving on leaves a void on and off the pitch but the club has to keep moving forward to bring in the best players we can to this wonderful football club,” the Liverpool manager said.
 
“We need to replace that quality either through some of our young players getting an opportunity or our players stepping up to the mark but also by bringing in that quality. Time will tell on that. It has been difficult and over the last couple of years some of our top players have gone out, Jamie Carragher in the first year, Pepe Reina and Luis Suárez. No one knows that more than me. For a manager it is very difficult because these players have been outstanding but you need a plan in place to replace that quality. We as a football club will expect that quality and must have it going forward. This is Liverpool, we have to be in the running for the world’s best.”
 
Liverpool have missed out on a host of top transfer targets in recent years, including last summer when, from a position of strength, they were unable to entice Alexis Sánchez from Barcelona or conclude a deal for Bony.
 
However, Rodgers insisted: “We have to believe it can be done. Last summer, after nearly winning the league, qualifying for the Champions League and playing a game that excited people, we were in a great position to attract a level of player. But we have to believe that the status of this club and the idea that the club is moving forward will make players still want to come. Players change but the great name of Liverpool is still the same and hopefully come the end of the season we will be in the Champions League having won something as well.”
 
Whether Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owners, will pay the money to land “the world’s best” is open to question.
 
James Milner is a possible summer target for Rodgers should he resist signing a new contract at Manchester City, although the Liverpool manager cautioned: “James is a wonderful player and has always been a talented player but players are consistently linked here through agents to get a better deal at another club.” He also believes Liverpool’s fortunes in the transfer market are not necessarily linked to finance.
 
“For a lot of players it’s two things – game-time and money, simple as that,” added Rodgers. “That’s the way of the modern game – how often they are going to play and the money they’ll earn. There are cases when players will forfeit the financial side to come to a project that they feel they can play a big part in. Of course it is difficult because players can opt to go elsewhere for whatever reason. Some may prefer to go to Spain, some to London because of the life or whatever. But you just have to keep working to find the players who can make you the best you can be.”
 
The Liverpool manager confirmed Daniel Sturridge is due to return from his intensive rehabilitation programme in the United States on Friday. The injury-plagued striker is expected to feature in the Liverpool side later this month.


