http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/20/memphis-depay-psv-liverpool-manchester-united

Liverpool set for Memphis Depay duel with Manchester United


Liverpool are set to compete with Manchester United for the signature of Memphis Depay this summer but face a major challenge to land the PSV Eindhoven forward without Champions League football.
 
Brendan Rodgers needs to overhaul his troubled attacking options with Mario Balotelli, Fabio Borini and Rickie Lambert likely to be surplus to requirements and Daniel Sturridge proving prone to injury. Depay, who helped PSV win the Eredivisie title for the first time since 2008 on Saturday, is a target.
  
 Related: Brendan Rodgers and his Liverpool nearly men are almost out of excuses | Andy Hunter 
   
The PSV coach, Phillip Cocu, admitted after winning the title with a 4-1 defeat of Heerenveen that he expected Depay and the midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum to leave. The PSV technical director, Marcel Brands, has since claimed United have inquired about the 21-year-old, who has scored 20 league goals this season and played under Louis van Gaal for Holland at last summer’s World Cup. “We have had a telephone call from them about him,” Brands said. “But no talks have been held. Several top clubs have expressed interest.”
 
Tottenham Hotspur tried to sign Depay for a reported €20m [£14.4m] last year but PSV will demand a higher fee following his starring role in their championship success. “It will be much higher than the offer from Tottenham Hotspur. He will be very expensive,” Brands said.
 
The presence of Van Gaal gives United an advantage over their Premier League rivals for Depay’s signature, as does the likelihood of Champions League football at Old Trafford next season. Liverpool’s prospects of convincing the 21-year-old to come to Anfield may be determined by whether they finish in the top four. Rodgers’ team trail fourth-placed Manchester City by seven points having played one game fewer than Manuel Pellegrini’s team and missing out on the Champions League would compound the disappointment of Sunday’ s FA Cup semi-final defeat by Aston Villa.
 
Liverpool’s players were given Monday off following their anaemic performance at Wembley but it is believed further talks have taken place over a new contract for Jordan Henderson. The club’s vice-captain will enter the final 12 months of his current deal at the end of this season having refused to accept Liverpool’s terms for an extension. Henderson is keen to extend his Anfield career and a resolution to a contract impasse that began earlier this season is understood to be close.


