http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/18/football-transfer-rumours

Football transfer rumours: Javier Pastore to Liverpool?


Despite the desperate attempts of both player and club to keep it quiet, news of Steven Gerrard’s imminent departure from Anfield has filtered into the public domain. The faithful club servant’s low-key valedictory address to fans and subsequent exit through the Shankly Gates on Saturday moved many present to salty tears, much like the Liverpool performance that preceded it against a Crystal Palace side that didn’t so much rain on their hosts’ parade as torrentially sheet down on it with the force of 10,000 monsoons.
 
While Liverpool’s collective performance was always likely to take second place on an evening that had long been pencilled in as a farewell celebration of their captain’s outstanding contribution to the cause over the past 17 years, the manner in which the home team were schooled on their own turf by a mid-table side from Sarf London will have been a source of great concern to Brendan Rodgers, who is looking increasingly hapless and insecure in his role as manager. Reinforcements are urgently required if this club are to ascend, rather than descend, the table next season.
 
The Paris Saint-Germain playmaker Javier Pastore is one man being linked with a move to Merseyside and the 25-year-old from Córdoba is understood to be available for a cut-price £14.5m now that he’s entering the final year of his contract. Pastore had a mixed weekend, guaranteeing himself another Ligue 1 winner’s medal courtesy of PSG’s win at Montpelier but picking up a thoroughly undeserved booking that will rule him out of his side’s Coupe de France final against Auxerre on 30 May. Having failed to make much of an impression at Manchester City since arriving from Fiorentina in July 2013, the Montenegro striker Stevan Jovetic may also be given the chance to resurrect his career at Anfield, where there are likely to be several vacancies for strikers due to Daniel Sturridge’s continuing residency in the treatment room and the imminent departure of Rickie Lambert and Mario Balotelli  to Bournemouth and Sampdoria respectively.
 
The Sun reports that Manchester City are prepared to go toe-to-toe with their city rivals United in their attempts to liberate Gareth Bale from his Bernabéu misery, in a saga that looks set to run and run throughout the summer. Having been made a scapegoat for his club’s shortcomings on the domestic and European front this season, Bale departure from the Spanish capital this summer looks a certainty and a bidding war between the two Manchester clubs would almost certainly help to put the spring back in the step of Real’s president, Florentino Pérez. Along with Bayern Munich and PSG, City are also rumoured to be one of several clubs sniffing around Wolfsburg midfielder Kevin De Bruyne, although the Bundesliga side’s chief executive, Klaus Allofs, has stated that “at the moment, I’d call him unsellable”.
 
Metro reports that Manchester United want to sign Roma’s Bosnian midfielder Miralem Pjanic and his industrious mohawk-sporting Belgian team-mate Radja Nainggolan, but would have to shell out £50m for the pair of them. In yet another tedious rumour linking anyone with even the remotest smidgeon of talent with a move to Old Trafford, the West Brom striker Saido Berahino could find himself on the move, with the United whelp James Wilson going the other way on loan as part of any prospective deal. The Bayern Munich utility man Thomas Müller and the Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech could also find themselves jostling for space in a congested Manchester United dressing room, although Chelsea’s in-demand reserve goalkeeper is also wanted by Arsenal and PSG. “We have been permitted by Chelsea to negotiate with interested parties,” said Cech’s agent, Viktor Kolar, whose client has just one year left on his contract at Stamford Bridge.
 
Should Cech leave Chelsea, his training ground peg and parking space could go to the 22-year-old Argentinian striker Mauro Icardi, who is believed to be unsettled at Inter and agitating for a move after contract talks between his “people” and the Italian club’s suits reached an impasse. Meanwhile in Barcelona, the 19-year-old wunderkind Sandro Ramírez is being monitored by Tottenham Hotspur and Newcastle, who both fancy taking him on loan.


