http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/22/jordan-henderson-liverpool-captain-brendan-rodgers-diego-costa-chelsea

Brendan Rodgers praises Jordan Henderson’s leadership for Liverpool


Jordan Henderson has been praised for his willingness to protect his team and colleagues by Liverpool’s manager, Brendan Rodgers, following the midfidler’s tunnel row with Diego Costa.
 
Liverpool’s vice-captain was involved in an angry confrontation with the Chelsea striker following Tuesday’s Capital One Cup semi-final first leg at Anfield, which involved the pair being separated in the tunnel by a member of the home team’s staff. Rodgers refused to be drawn on the incident on Thursday, and did not witness the spat, yet was full of praise for Henderson’s leadership qualities.
 
Rodgers, who claimed his team can challenge for the Premier League title again next season, said: “Jordan was searching for his status at the club when I first came here; now you see his leadership qualities on and off the field. He will protect his team and colleagues and he does it with great pride.”
 
Henderson will be in contention to replace Steven Gerrard as captain when the midfielder joins LA Galaxy this summer and, although Rodgers insists the promotion “is not automatic”, the manager has been impressed by how the 24-year-old has accepted responsibility.
           Brendan Rodgers praises Jordan Henderson    
He explained: “Watching Steven closely in his time, he will understand why I have given him the vice-captaincy and the leadership qualities that are demanded. He will only grow and get better from it. You saw the other night that he is very much a team player.
 
“This is a guy who, at the end of last season, when we were in for the title and he was suspended for the final three games after he was sent-off against Manchester City, went to someone here at the club and said: ‘If there are any media duties to be done, I will do them’. He wanted the other players to concentrate on the game.
 
“He was willing take on those duties to allow the other players to concentrate on their football and that is the type of young man that he is. He has grown into a first-class young player who can still get better as he wants to learn and embrace the different tactics of the game. If he becomes captain next season, he will carry it with great honour.”
 
Rodgers, who confirmed Daniel Sturridge is not ready for the FA Cup fourth-round tie against Bolton Wanderers on Saturday, predicted his team would challenge for the title next season. “The reality was, with so many changes, we were not going to win the league this season. I believe we will be ready to challenge for the title next year. This year was about targeting the top four and the cups.
 
“I think this squad has Premier League-winning capabilities. We have young players who can grow together. A win in the cup would provide greater stimulus. You need to buy ready-made quality as well but this was the year for players to adapt and settle. Come the summer the period of integration will be complete and then we can compete like we did last year for the title.”


