http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/mar/01/chelsea-jose-mourinho-happy-one-tottenham-hotspur

Chelsea’s José Mourinho the Happy One as he ends his trophy drought | Barney Ronay


Maybe he really is the Happy One after all. Certainly José Mourinho looked unusually animated in the moment of victory – all smiles, hugs and energetic air-punch combinations – as Chelsea produced a performance of gristle, discipline and craft to beat Tottenham 2-0 and lift the Capital One Cup. This was also a first trophy of any kind for Mourinho in 914 days as a manager at Real Madrid and Chelsea.
 
Not that anybody (apart, perhaps, from José himself, and even then only quietly, late at night) is counting. More to the point there was confirmation at Wembley that this re-geared Chelsea team is indeed in transition. Albeit not towards the free-flowing attacking force of the autumn, a team of Hazards and Oscars, but towards something more truly carved in its manager’s image: the dry ice clearing, feather boa dropped to the floor, the mask askew to reveal the familiar unsmiling face beneath. Welcome back, cussed, trophy-winning José. For a while there we thought we’d lost you, old boy.
 
This was a wonderful day for Mourinho at a boisterous, rain-whipped Wembley stadium as his Chelsea Mk2 team won its first trophy of the new era with a performance that looked, most of the time, quite a lot like the old era. Not only did Chelsea’s manager enjoy a personal tactical triumph, sending out a team of all the defenders while displaying a hilariously unflinching pragmatist’s disdain for the occasion. He also saw his team’s position clarified in the pursuit of more substantial honours. It might be stretching it, as Mourinho himself suggested, to call this the day Chelsea won two trophies, given Manchester City’s defeat by Liverpool. But certainly the season looks to have taken a decisive turn, not least in the nature of this evolving team.
 
For all their continued progress on three fronts, Chelsea have looked leggy in recent weeks, a team gulping in oxygen. Before this game the Premier League leaders had won two of their last eight matches. It isn’t hard to see what the problem has been. With Cesc Fàbregas the flower at its heart, there has been a lack of bite and power in Chelsea’s central midfield even with Nemanja Matic in the team, which in turn exposes the centre-backs and clips the wings of that expansive attacking midfield.
 
In response Chelsea have begun to win – or rather refuse to lose – from the back. Since the turn of the year the defence has scored more goals than the attack, with four of their last six goals coming from Branislav Ivanovic and John Terry. With this in mind, Mourinho’s selection here made lots of sense. Need to win a cup final: get another defender in.
 
Whatever it takes to win the game has always been Mourinho’s approach, even if that means the league leaders starting a cup final crouched behind their guard, with only two obvious goalscorers in the team and a spare 20-year-old centre-half lifting pianos in midfield. In Matic’s absence Mourinho went Deep Mourinho, the arch-pragmatist selecting a team with five defenders in it and asking the 20-year-old Kurt Zouma to do his most diligent impersonation of a central midfielder, as he did, remaining steadfastly within his defensive zone and smothering Christian Eriksen.
 
At times like these it is hard not to admire Mourinho’s cussedness: the champions elect sent out a team with five defenders in a cup final and yet rarely looked like doing anything other than winning. Tottenham spent long periods of the first half charging through some yawning spaces between defence and attack, only to founder on that deep-lying man-trap of a defence, led by a fine, intelligent performance by John Terry. After which it was hardly a surprise that Chelsea’s opening was scored by a defender.
 
Terry found himself in the right place to poke the ball through a huddle of players after Willian’s free-kick had dropped, as was always statistically likely, to the feet of a Chelsea centre-half. The second goal will no doubt remain with Diego Costa, but even that was semi-assisted by a defender, Kyle Walker deflecting Costa’s shot past Hugo Lloris after a decisive break through the inside-left channel.
 
How far can this Chelsea team go now? With that trophy duck broken, there was a tangible sense here of a team hammering a spike into the rock face with the summit in sight. What does seem certain is they will proceed from here in much the same manner, not so much breaking into a sprint away from the peloton as fanning out and daring the opposition to pass them. Chelsea’s methods may have been cussed in recent weeks, the results a little stuttering, but both have been burnished by results both here and elsewhere; even the creditable draw against Paris St Germain looks a handier result given the travails of England’s other champions league teams.
 
Much has been made of Mourinho’s own trophy mini-drought, which is by any reasonable standards, and outside the overheated cult of the Mourinho personality, not really anything of the sort. What does seem likely is that Chelsea Mk2 will push right to the end in search of more. And that a team that launched itself at the start of the season on a surfeit of fine, fluent attacking midfielders, has found its stride again as a more familiarly José, familiarly cussed affair, a rear-wheel-drive team led, once again here, from the back.


