http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/17/simon-mignolet-liverpool-hype-manchester-united

Liverpool must ignore hype around United clash, warns Simon Mignolet


Simon Mignolet has warned that in-form Liverpool must not get carried away by the hype around their match against Manchester United at Anfield on Sunday.
 
Liverpool’s victory at Swansea on Monday was their fifth league win in a row, and they have not lost since December’s 3-0 defeat at Old Trafford. That run has taken them from 10th place to fifth – just two points behind United in the race for Champions League qualification.
 
Mignolet, who kept Liverpool’s sixth consecutive away clean sheet, said: “We know there will be a huge build up [to Sunday], but as professionals we can’t get carried away. If we make more of it than it is we might get flustered or carried away, so we have to address it in a professional manner and focus on our job rather than what the opponent does or how big a game it is.
 
“We can’t get ahead of ourselves. We will get prepared the best we can. We know it is a big game, and especially playing at home we want to get three points again – but that is the only thing we will think about. We will prepare the best, as Manchester United will do, and we will be ready.”
 
Mignolet said it was a big achievement for the side to move to within four points of second place, but urged caution. “We are very pleased, but there are still a lot of games to play. We can’t think about that, we have to keep going and do the things we are doing at the moment and we will see where we are at the end of the season.”
 
The goalkeeper also addressed his own personal upturn, having received serious criticism earlier in the season – including being dropped “indefinitely” by manager Brendan Rodgers in December.
 
Asked if he was pleased with his performances, he said: “Yes, but I don’t want to take any personal praise – keeping clean sheets and getting victories is to do with the squad and I have said that since the beginning.
 
“Every time we play it gets easier, the back three, and five, are working really well together and everybody knows their jobs. Like I said, in the second half we didn’t give anything away, and then it is easy to play as a goalkeeper.”


