http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/02/tottenham-mk-dons-dele-alli-aaron-lennon-everton

Tottenham win race for MK Dons’ Dele Alli, loan Aaron Lennon to Everton


Mauricio Pochettino placed the emphasis on youth at Tottenham Hotspur on transfer deadline day by tying Harry Kane to a five-and-a-half-year contract and signing the 18-year-old MK Dons midfielder Dele Alli, while he loaned Aaron Lennon to Everton for the rest of the season.
 
Lennon had fallen from favour under Pochettino and he has not featured since 11 December. The 27-year-old England winger, who joined Tottenham for £1m from Leeds United in 2005, has started only three Premier League games this season. There was interest in him from Hull and Stoke but, when Everton made their move, Lennon jumped at the chance. They have the option to make the deal permanent in the summer. Lennon’s Tottenham contract is due to expire in 2017.
 
Tottenham inquired about taking the forward Kevin Mirallas from Everton but they were told he was not for sale. They will try again in the summer when Mirallas would have one year to run on his deal, although Everton retain an option on him for a further year.
 
Tottenham offered £5m for Alli with a loan back to MK Dons for the rest of the season as part of the arrangement. He underwent a medical on Monday evening and a five-and-a-half year deal was confirmed later.
 
Alli has emerged as one of the hottest prospects in English football and one of his recent appearances drew representatives from 32 clubs. Bayern Munich and Internazionale are among those to have scouted him.
 
Alli, who joined MK Dons at the age of 11, had an excellent game in the 4-0 Capital One Cup win over Manchester United in August and he has scored 12 times in League One this season. MK Dons sit second in League One.
 
He made his debut for MK Dons in November 2012 and has scored 20 goals in 76 appearances in all competitions for them. His performances have been notable for technique and strength in the challenge. Capped by England Under-19s, Alli was the subject of bids from Newcastle and Aston Villa. Newcastle, though, wanted to wait until the summer to do the deal.
 
Pochettino has shown a willingness to trust in young players since his arrival in England, first at Southampton and now at White Hart Lane where a clutch of players aged 23 and under have been given their opportunity.
 
Kane, the 21-year-old striker, has taken his chance in eye-catching style. He has already scored 20 goals in all competitions this season to become only the second Tottenham player to reach the landmark since 2007-08 (Gareth Bale was the other) and the improved terms to 2020 reflect his progress. The England Under-21 international is tipped to make the step up to senior level.
 
“It has been a great six months,” said Kane, who signed his previous contract in August. “This [deal] is another stepping stone. Hopefully I can push on from this and get even better.”
 
Kane, who supported Tottenham as a boy, has been at the club since the age of 11, although things might have worked out differently had he made the grade at Arsenal. He spent a year at their academy when he was eight.
     Following his release from Spurs Assou-Ekotto changed his Twitter profile photo to this image. Photograph: Screengrab    
“I wanted to wear a Tottenham kit but I don’t think that would have gone down too well,” Kane said, with a smile. “I was a kid just trying to play football but I have been at Spurs since I was 11. I have always loved the club. I have been here 10 years and, hopefully, there are many more years to come.” Tottenham have cancelled the contract of their full-back Benoît Assou-Ekotto.


