http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/27/mario-balotelli-not-leaving-liverpool-agent

Mario Balotelli has no intention of leaving Liverpool, says agent


Mario Balotelli’s agent has placed a potential obstacle in the way of Liverpool’s transfer plans by insisting the striker will not be leaving Anfield this summer, although the club remain determined to cut their losses on the Italy forward.
 
The 24-year-old endured a miserable season on Merseyside following his £16m arrival from Milan last August, starting only 14 games in all competitions, scoring four goals and being publicly criticised several times by his manager, Brendan Rodgers. The forward was also hindered by injury and illness and did not feature in any of Liverpool’s last four match-day squads.
 
Liverpool are prepared to take a substantial financial hit to offload Balotelli this summer. The former Manchester City striker earns a basic £80,000-a-week plus top-ups related to performance and behaviour, and has two years remaining on his three-year contract. The club have an option for a fourth year but it underlines his unsuitability to Rodgers’ system that they are keen for him to go after one.
 
Sampdoria have an interest in taking Balotelli back to Serie A with Liverpool determined to overhaul a strike force that scored only eight league goals last season. But the striker’s agent, Mino Raiola, has claimed his client is not considering a move. “I have had talks with Liverpool and he will definitely stay,” Raiola told Sky Sports News.
  
 Related: Steven Gerrard vows to return to Liverpool in the future 
   
Rodgers criticised Balotelli’s work-rate and inability to adapt to the team’s demands several times last season, but Raiola says the problem has not been down to his client. “Mario did [adapt]. I can’t talk for Brendan, that is a question for him, but Mario did and I spoke various times to the club and they were happy with Mario as a professional. I am confident it will happen next year.”
 
Of Liverpool’s recognised strike force from last season – Daniel Sturridge, Rickie Lambert, Fabio Borini and Balotelli – only the injury-prone Sturridge features in the manager’s plans for next term. Balotelli, Borini and Lambert are among a host of players the club is willing to sell this summer, a list that also includes José Enrique, Luis Alberto and Sebastián Coates. Iago Aspas will join Sevilla on a permanent basis following a season-long loan spell with the Andalucían club, while Glen Johnson and Brad Jones will leave as free agents when their contracts expire next month.
 
In a sign that Rodgers retains the backing of Fenway Sports Group, Liverpool’s owner, despite a dismal end to the season, the club are advancing with established plans for a new-look attack. Aston Villa striker Christian Benteke is a leading transfer target and Liverpool are expected to bid for the Belgium international after the FA Cup final. Divock Origi has already been signed from Lille for £9.8m and Anfield is understood to be Danny Ings’ preferred destination despite Tottenham Hotspur and Real Sociedad also having interest in the Burnley striker.
 
Ings is out of contract at Turf Moor this summer but the 22-year-old will command a development fee of around £5m-£6m, to be set by a tribunal if Burnley and the buying club cannot agree a price.


