http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/03/steven-gerrard-will-move-to-mls-liverpool

Steven Gerrard will move to MLS as Rodgers defends Liverpool handling of exit


Liverpool have confirmed that Steven Gerrard will move to Major League Soccer at the end of the season, while his manager, Brendan Rodgers, rejected suggestions the club had not done enough to keep their inspirational captain.
 
Los Angeles Galaxy head the clubs in the US who will be interested in signing the 34-year-old but in an interview via Liverpool’s official website he said: “I can tell the supporters at the moment that it will be America. I’ll be going to play in America but I’m not over the line with any team just yet. I’m close and as soon as I know I’ll make the announcement, I’ll do the bits and bobs that I need to do. Then we try to go and win a trophy and forget about Steven Gerrard for a bit.”
 
When asked if it was his long-term plan to return to Anfield in some capacity one day, Gerrard added: “I think that’s more in hope. I’ll only come back and serve the club if I feel as if I can help. I’ll always be a fan, of course, no matter what happens in the future, but I think that’s something I’ll have to consider.
 
“I think when you’ve been part of a club like this for so long and you’ve contributed in the way I’ve tried to, I’d always want that to stay the same in the future. I wouldn’t like to come back just to be Steven Gerrard the player and just be around. I’d like to help in whatever capacity that may be. If I sit down with the people who are running the club at that time and they see a role for me where I can help the team or help young kids to become players, of course I will consider it because, as you say, it’s been such a big part of my life.”
 
Gerrard’s close friend Jamie Carragher, who retired almost two years ago, suggested the Reds should have offered the midfielder a coaching position in addition to the extended playing contract, which Gerrard ultimately rejected. However, Rodgers said he knew Gerrard was not ready to step away from playing just yet and, with him now due to leave in the summer, the unenviable plans to fill the void begin in earnest.
 
“When I came in here [in the summer of 2012] I still believed Steven had a lot to offer the team in terms of his performance and working here I see his great influence in the changing room with other players and the great work he does at the club,” said Rodgers. “But you always have at the back of your mind he will move on and you have to look to bring through the next ones and that has had to be looked at.
 
“It is near-on impossible to find a direct replacement for someone of that stature and quality but we have to continue with our work and find the top players to come in. Steven Gerrard is unique in his play and behaviour so you can’t make a direct replacement but, as we have seen over many years in football, there is always the opportunity for the next one to come in.”
 
The owners, Fenway Sports Group, have already offered Gerrard an as-yet unspecified role at the club when his playing days are finally over but Rodgers said the midfielder was not interested in a coaching role at this moment. That did not mean the club did not want him to stay on but the likelihood of an increasingly reduced role for a player who turns 35 in May was not an appealing one for Gerrard, although Rodgers dismissed any suggestions of animosity in their parting.
 
“Steven’s statement makes it clear. He certainly knew my feelings on him wanting to be here,” added Rodgers. “Of course I want him to stay but his role is slightly different and naturally at this level it was going to be tapered a bit. He wasn’t ready to move into coaching yet, he still sees himself very much as a player but when that time comes and he retires that is maybe something we can look at then as he is someone who would be brilliant to have as part of the staff here. At the moment his concentration is on his football. He said himself he leaves on good terms so anything else said would be wide of the mark.”
 
Gerrard confirmed on Friday that it was the toughest decision of his life to leave the club. “I am making the announcement now so the manager and the team are not distracted by stories or speculation about my future,” he said. “Liverpool Football Club has been such a huge part of all our lives for so long and saying goodbye is going to be difficult but I feel it’s something that’s in the best interests of all involved, including my family and the club itself.”
 
The midfielder told LFCTV the dream scenario to mark his departure would be winning a trophy. He said: “We’ve still got a chance of finishing in the top four and that’s the most important thing for the club, for obvious reasons. That would be a great achievement after the start we’ve made in the league but, from a selfish point of view, it’s always a trophy and it’s always medals, for me. That’s what people remember and that’s what the club is all about.
 
“It’s about success and history. The day you make your debut for this club, the pressure and the responsibility is on your shoulders to keep delivering trophies to add to that wonderful history. I’ve lived with that for so long and I’ll live with it for another six months and try my best to add one or two more.
 
“I wish I was 24, I wish I’d met Brendan when I was 24 because I think I’d be sitting here talking about a lot of titles that we’d won together. The reality is Brendan came into this club when I was 32 years of age and it’s a shame that relationship didn’t start 10 years ago.”
 
The MLS champions, Galaxy, are in the market for a big-name signing given the Irish striker Robbie Keane is their last remaining well-known foreign player and he is in the final year of his contract. However, the New York Red Bulls are also looking for a marquee player after the retirement of Thierry Henry.
    
Steven Gerrard confirms he will move to the USA this summer. Watch exclusive interview at 5pm on @LFCTV and LFCTV GO pic.twitter.com/pwsWtgqp5h
&mdash; Liverpool FC  (@LFC) January 3, 2015  

