http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/23/liverpool-martin-skrtel-fa-charge-manchester-united

Liverpool’s Martin Skrtel charged over stamp on David de Gea


The fallout from Liverpool’s tempestuous game against Manchester United has continued in the shape of a Football Association charge and likely ban for Martin Skrtel for stamping on David de Gea.
 
Skrtel will be suspended for Liverpool’s next three games unless he can persuade the FA’s disciplinary department that what happened in the final moments of United’s 2-1 win was not deliberate on his part and did not constitute violent conduct.
  
 Related: Steven Gerrard pays high price for starting his farewell tour so early 
   
Brendan Rodgers tried after the game to make a case that it was an accident but the television pictures make a strong case against Skrtel and he is likely to miss Liverpool’s next two league matches against Arsenal and Newcastle as well as their FA Cup sixth-round replay against Blackburn Rovers. Liverpool will already be without Steven Gerrard for those three games because of the stamp on Ander Herrera that saw the former England captain sent off within a minute of coming on as a half-time substitute.
 
The referee, Martin Atkinson, informed the FA his view of the Skrtel incident was obstructed and that meant it went to a video panel for a disciplinary review. The decision was that it was a red-card offence, in breach of FA Rule E3, with the members of the panel rejecting Rodgers’s explanation that it was not as bad as it looked on television.
 
Liverpool are deliberating about whether they should challenge the FA and stick to Rodgers’s explanation. “My reading of it wasn’t that [a stamp],” the manager had said. “The ball has been played through and when it is slowed down it looks like he has caught him with intent. I didn’t see it like that. He is trying to get the ball. You see his foot up but that is a symbol when a player is just trying to get his toe on the ball because if he does that and the keeper brings him down it is probably a penalty. But when the keeper gets [landed on by] studs it can hurt.”
 
Skrtel has been given until 6pm on Tuesday to respond.


