http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/23/liverpool-daniel-sturridge-england-doubt-lithuania-italy

Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge a major England doubt with hip injury


Daniel Sturridge is a serious doubt for England’s qualifying game against Lithuania on Friday and next week’s friendly against Italy after sustaining a hip injury during Liverpool’s defeat by Manchester United.
 
The striker, whose club-mate Adam Lallana has withdrawn from the senior squad, is to be assessed by the national team’s medical staff at St George’s Park before a decision is made on his involvement.
 
Sturridge had hoped to make his first appearance for his country since the autumn, when he suffered a thigh injury in a training session with England and ended up missing almost five months in rehabilitation.
 
The 25-year-old returned to action with Liverpool at the end of January, scoring on his return against West Ham, and has managed three further goals in the 12 games since as he steadily recovers his form and full fitness. He scored the hosts’ consolation against United on Sunday, only to complain of discomfort in the hip post-match.
 
A full medical check will take place at St George’s Park but it seems doubtful Sturridge would be risked by Hodgson given the time the player has spent on the sidelines this season unless he has fully recovered.
 
The national manager has the uncapped Harry Kane, the captain Wayne Rooney and Arsenal’s Danny Welbeck, who boasts five goals in four qualifying games this season, as alternative forward options in his party which convened on Monday for the two fixtures ahead.
 
It remains to be seen whether there would be further tweaks to the squad if Sturridge follows Lallana’s lead and withdraws.
 
The midfielder’s groin injury flared up in the first half of the loss to United and he was withdrawn at the interval for Steven Gerrard. The player is understood to believe the injury is not too serious but it will preclude his involvement in the next week.
 
It is believed that the first of those two games, the qualifier against Lithuania, will be a 90,000 sell-out.


