http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/03/liverpool-afc-wimbledon-fa-cup-third-round

Liverpool tie is fitting reward for AFC Wimbledon’s pioneering spirit


Throughout the extraordinary rise of supporter-owned AFC Wimbledon and of Wimbledon FC – until their character curdled and was taken to Milton Keynes – romantic idealism has been twinned with determination.
 
The old club’s spirit is forever ingrained in football’s history at the pinnacle of their achievement: the 1988 FA Cup victory over Kenny Dalglish’s stellar Liverpool. The new club have already forged a story as remarkable in their way, starting out in the Combined Counties league in 2002 after the fans overwhelmingly rejected the FA-sanctioned “franchise” of the club to Milton Keynes, then winning five promotions to clamber back to the Football League in 2011.
 
The FA Cup third-round draw which will on Monday bring Steven Gerrard’s Liverpool down to the 5,000 capacity Kingsmeadow stadium has bridged the two Wimbledons’ histories, although the fans insist it was never truly severed. Ivor Heller, AFC Wimbledon’s commercial director and a founding father of the rebirth, recalls that when, in 2002, they had to register the date of formation with the London FA, he and the first chairman, Kris Stewart, grinned, then wrote: “1889.”
 
They are all still driven by the infamous verdict of the two men on the FA commission who allowed the old club to become MK Dons and who opined that fans “resurrecting the club from its ashes,” as Stewart had vowed to, “is not in the wider interests of football”.
 
At every stage of their journey, from the first match at Sandhurst Town where terraces were improvised with hay bales, to this Liverpool draw with the club seriously progressing plans for a new stadium back on Plough Lane itself, Wimbledon supporters have spat back those words with defiance and disbelief.
 
“How could they possibly think that?” Heller says. “That line has spurred us on beyond belief. I always said if we started again, with a lot of hard work, we would get great cup draws, beat ‘them’ [Wimbledon beat MK Dons for the first time in October, in the Johnstone’s Paint Trophy], win promotions. This Liverpool match is the next landmark, proving again what we did was right.”
 
The supporters own the club mutually via membership of the Dons Trust, an adamantly different ethos from the old club’s ownership by a single businessman, Sam Hammam, who sold the Plough Lane ground for £8m with no replacement secured, then the club itself for £26.5m. AFC Wimbledon have repeatedly rejected offers from investors to take over; the chief executive, Erik Samuelson, says that in surveys the fans’ top stated priority is for the club to remain in supporter ownership.
 
The second, he says, is to return to the London borough of Merton and the democratic structure requires a 75% majority on a turnout of at least 50% of Dons Trust members, to approve any sale of Kingsmeadow. Dave Boyle, the former chief executive of Supporters Direct, which promotes fan ownership, helped to draft that protection into the Dons Trust constitution. Chelsea, to whom a sale is understood to have been agreed in principle – although Samuelson will not confirm it on the grounds of confidentiality – intend to use Kingsmeadow for youth and women’s team fixtures.
 
When news of the Chelsea discussions broke last week, some Wimbledon fans expressed serious concerns that the move must ensure Kingstonian, the Ryman Premier league club which previously owned Kingsmeadow and has always groundshared with AFC Wimbledon, are adequately accommodated. That has been somewhat allayed by a statement from the Kingstonian joint chairman Malcolm Winwright, who said Kingsmeadow is no longer practical for the club’s size and that the Dons Trust “fully understand our position and have expressed their desire to give us, as always, as much moral, practical and financial assistance as possible.”
 
That is understood to involve a significant contribution to help Kingstonian secure another permanent home, although much more work needs to be done for the club to achieve it.
 
For Wimbledon, building a stadium on the old greyhound track on Plough Lane, initially 11,000 capacity, designed for expansion to 20,000, is a dream, for which a planning application has already been served.
 
A partnership with Galliard Homes will provide some capital in return for neighbouring housebuilding and the club expects to sell naming rights and issue mutual-style community shares to supporters.
 
Samuelson says of the Liverpool tie: “You can’t help but dream you might just beat them again,” but mixes giantkilling wishes with workaday gratitude that the windfall, including £144,000 for the live BBC broadcast, could total £250,000, a fifth of their annual budget.
 
He does not need reminding that this will equate to one week’s wage for a top Premier League player – perhaps Gerrard, who will play at Kingsmeadow in his first game for Liverpool since announcing this will be his last season at the club he has served with such distinction.
 
The financial chasm between the Premier League, with its £5.5bn TV deals from 2013-16, and the rest of football makes it harder, Samuelson says, to repeat the old Wimbledon’s rise. It was achieved before the old First Division clubs – including Wimbledon – voted to break away in 1992 from sharing the forthcoming pay-TV bonanza with the clubs in the Football League’s other three divisions.
 
Dave Bassett, the manager who harried Wimbledon from non-league to First Division but left before the 1987-88 FA Cup win claimed by Bobby Gould, points out that Wimbledon were always a financial minor. The team who played in the first season at the top, 1986-87, cost £470,000, he says, at a time when Liverpool sold Ian Rush to Juventus for £3.2m. The wage bill was £285,000, a fraction of the sums top clubs paid, yet Bassett proudly recalls their triumphs: beating Manchester United and Chelsea home and away, and Liverpool at Anfield.
 
He and other club legends are irritated by the Crazy Gang portrayal of Wimbledon, dominated by tales of thuggery, which was advanced again in a recent BT Sport documentary featuring John Fashanu and Vinnie Jones . Bassett, like the former striker Terry Gibson who angrily debunked those tales, argues for a reassessment and recognition of Wimbledon’s qualities.
 
“Wimbledon should be the greatest story ever,” Bassett, now 70, argues, “but we weren’t given credit because clubs didn’t like playing us and decided we were just route one.” He can rattle off statistics, figures, a proud list of players. “If managers thought our players had no ability, that Dennis Wise, Kevin Gage, Nigel Winterburn, Glyn Hodges, Dave Beasant, couldn’t play – they made a fatal error.”
 
Bassett says he is “not proud” of the horrific incident when Fashanu shattered the eye socket and cheekbone of Tottenham Hotspur’s Gary Mabbutt with an elbow in 1993. He says Wimbledon were strong, they did play the long ball – one of his mentors was Charles Hughes, the FA’s former head of coaching and guru of direct play – but reels off his qualifications and argues they had method.
 
“We used statistics, we analysed videos of other teams; we had targets. We concentrated on youth development: 13 of the 21 players in that 86-87 First Division squad came as youngsters.”
 
Lawrie Sanchez, who joined from Reading in 1984, is forever known, out of a 17-year playing career and management since 1997, for his headed goal which won Wimbledon the Cup – “my Noddy Holder moment,” he said with a shrug in pre-Christmas reflection.
 
Sanchez acknowledges they were direct, aggressive, had several players over 6ft 2in, and the smaller men, Wise and Gibson, could make him “cringe” with the bite in their tackles. But he cites good players in his teams: Andy Thorn, Keith Curle, Terry Phelan, John Scales, who moved to bigger clubs, as well as Wise and Beasant.
 
Sanchez, like Bassett, does not quite feel AFC is the same club as his old Wimbledon, recognising the old club were taken to Milton Keynes, but feels “great admiration” for the fans who have recreated it. “These were our fans,” he says. “They weren’t prepared to put up with the club being moved and what they have done is probably the best achievement in football since the old Wimbledon. When I go, there is a unique feeling at the club: it’s a people’s club.”
 
The current manager, Neal Ardley, was a schoolboy signed to Wimbledon in 1988, then came through in yet another wave of young talent who included Chris Perry, Jason Euell and Neil Sullivan. Ardley said he is planning to challenge Liverpool to a contest, while recognising his team might have only 30-35% possession in the game.
 
“We are aware of Liverpool’s strengths, penetration, the way they play between the lines,” Ardley said. “We need to say to Liverpool: if you are going to win, you will have to do things pretty well. If we can produce to a high level, and our players are at it, which I expect them to be, then we have players who can cause Liverpool problems.”
 
Of the occasion’s significance Ardley said: “Drawing Liverpool has reminded everybody of 1988; it has made people realise this is that club which beat Liverpool then; these are the same fans.”
 
They resolutely refused to see their club snatched away, so they formed their own and have become pioneers in British football’s developing alternative model of supporter ownership. In an era of oligarchs and investors seeking profit from the owning of clubs, AFC Wimbledon are a beacon and are not doubted by very many to be in the wider interests of football.


