http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/may/31/jose-mourinho-promises-sydney-chelseas-best-in-post-season-friendly

José Mourinho promises Sydney Chelsea’s best in post-season friendly


Chelsea boss José Mourinho has promised to play a full strength side when English Premier League champions Chelsea meet Sydney FC on Tuesday night. The Portuguese said on arrival in Sydney that Chelsea felt they had a responsibility of playing to win and playing their best team.
 
“This is what we are going to try to do,” Mourinho told a packed press conference. He said Chelsea felt an even bigger responsibility to achieve their goals just one week after lifting the Premier League title.
 
The team touched down to a raucous reception at Sydney airport on Sunday, leaving captain John Terry a little stunned at the welcome afforded to him and his team-mates. “We were all pretty tired and when we came through we all lit up,” Terry said. “The welcome was overwhelming and we got mobbed a little bit but it was nice and we’re delighted to be here.”
 
Terry said Chelsea’s preparation for the match would include watching footage of Sydney FC’s match on Saturday against Tottenham, which Spurs won 1-0 thanks to a Harry Kane goal. While Sydney were playing against Tottenham, Chelsea were defeating a Thai All Stars team 1-0 in Bangkok in front of 45,000 fans wearing blue shirts, another reminder to Mourinho of what his team owes its fans.
 
“You cannot lose,” he said. “You cannot go just for fun. You have to go for the result. It’s a matter of prestige and responsibility. We are still celebrating [the EPL title], yes. We are already thinking of next season, yes. But Tuesday’s match is our last match of this season, so we want to compete and give a good show.”
 
Sydney FC coach Graham Arnold said he had to pinch himself to believe his team was playing against giants like Tottenham and Chelsea in the space of four days. “It’s incredible to be sitting at the same table with three world football superstars,” he said. “The A-League is young but it’s developing further and further, and for Chelsea to add to the game of football in this country is mind-blowing.”
 
Sydney striker Shane Smeltz felt much the same, saying: “To play Chelsea is a privilege, not just for Sydney FC but for football fans in general.”
 
The match at ANZ Stadium has sold out in advance with many fans looking forward to a first chance to see their heroes in the flesh; Chelsea have not toured to Australia in 41 years. “Playing in front of 83,000 [people] is huge. It’s fantastic really,” Mourinho said.


