http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/26/brendan-rodgers-liverpool-development-plan-west-bromwich-albion

Brendan Rodgers plans Liverpool development after a write-off season


Brendan Rodgers concedes that Liverpool’s impending failure to qualify for the Champions League could lead to a double penalty as top-grade transfer targets are unlikely to head for Anfield and the dubious lure of Europa League football.
 
The Liverpool manager refused to dismiss reports that talks have been held with Memphis Depay, the Holland and PSV Eindhoven forward, as he seeks to replace last season’s 52-goal contribution from Luis Suárez and Daniel Sturridge that catapulted the club back into Europe’s elite on the back of amassing 101 Premier League goals.
 
Rodgers is more likely to be shopping in the Eredivisie than La Liga or Serie A, however, as Liverpool’s chances of finishing in the top four of the Premier League dwindled with this listless goalless draw at The Hawthorns. More of the same against relegation candidates Hull City and QPR this week and Liverpool’s chances of another dash for Champions League status and finance could be over.
 
Then the under-pressure manager will be attempting to persuade B-grade targets to buy into the club’s long-term project where they can be assured of chances to develop their game. Winning trophies would appear all the more distant.
 
“That would be more for the players [we aim for],” Rodgers said. “But if it is right for the players and if the project is right for them to learn and develop …
 
“If we are not in the Champions League, which now looks likely, players will still maybe want to come. Of course, they want to play in the Champions League. I just think if they have watched us over a few years – and this is a season we miss out on – if we can regroup, get some quality starters in for the summer, we can go on another great adventure next season and hopefully get back in there.”
 
It is 10 years since Liverpool’s top scorer failed to reach double figures in a season but Raheem Sterling, who could be off this summer seeking Champions League football, leads the way with 11 so far.
 
Jordon Ibe struck the crossbar after surging on to a one-two with Mario Balotelli and Dejan Lovren headed wide late on when connecting with a cross from Steven Gerrard, who was making his 500th Premier League appearance for his club. West Bromwich Albion, however, were quite content to cede 74% of possession to edge their way towards safety in the knowledge that Liverpool are the least penetrative of the country’s top seven teams.
 
If Alexis Sánchez, Wilfried Bony, Radamel Falcao and Edinson Cavani did not fancy replacing Suárez after Liverpool finished second to return to the Champions League last year, it is understandable Rodgers, who will surely offload Balotelli and Fabio Borini next month, will hope to nurture the likes of Depay, if the £20m target prefers Anfield to Old Trafford, and Divock Origi, when he returns from a season’s loan at Lille and build gradually.
 
Whether Rodgers, caught between a rock and a hard place, is afforded the luxury of a fourth season without silverware would remain to be seen.
 
Man of the match Darren Fletcher (West Brom)


