http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/27/christian-eriksen-tottenham-chelsea-capital-one-cup-final

Christian Eriksen: We showed we can play against Chelsea and beat them


Christian Eriksen is used to pressure. The man who carries Tottenham’s hopes of a first trophy in seven years has been the darling of Danish football since a teenager, played in four finals with Ajax where he signed at 16 and used to lock his bedroom door after a bad game to avoid speaking with his father.
 
He grew up shouldering the weight of a nation’s expectation, proclaimed as the next Michael Laudrup, and has become accustomed to ever-present, hyperbolic epithets during a career that remains in its infancy. Eriksen, still only 23, has had to deal with such hype for many years. This season, though, he has certainly justified it.
 
“I always had it, so I’ve learned to live with it,” he says. “Every player has a different style of play, has a different talent, so people look differently at you. But in the position I play, you need to have a bit of pressure. A lot of players who start young always get the comparison from other people, a bit older. Or the Danish newspapers with Laudrup … but I’ve been used to it from early on.”
 
Perhaps it is little surprise, then, that the midfielder was a model of calmness in a seminal week in Tottenham’s season, one that has included a Europa League defeat in Florence and will end with a trip to Wembley, where the club’s first silverware since Juande Ramos guided Spurs to a surprise League Cup success – against Chelsea, in 2008 – is in sight.
 
Tottenham will need cool heads on Sunday. Their campaign took a major hit on Thursday in Italy following a performance littered with errors – in front of goal and in defence – as Mauricio Pochettino made seven changes to his side and paid the price in a 2-0 loss that will be remembered most of all for Roberto Soldado’s howler.
 
Eriksen played 90 minutes in that game and trained at Coverciano on Friday with the rest of the squad before returning to London, as thoughts turned to a season‑defining meeting with Chelsea.
 
Eriksen has scored 11 goals this season, including crucial late efforts that have proved pivotal in the Premier League and Capital One Cup. He played in Spurs’ rampant 5-3 victory over Chelsea on New Year’s Day, a result that exposed the vulnerabilities of the league leaders and one that provided the title race with a much-needed shot in the arm.
 
Eriksen turned down the opportunity to sign for Chelsea as a teenager, at a time when Frank Arnesen, a fellow Dane, was the sporting director at Stamford Bridge. He had two separate trials at the club aged 14 and 15 – playing in youth matches against Millwall and West Ham – but eventually opted for Amsterdam, regarding it as a more gentle step up after three years with Odense. “In England you can’t enter the training ground without permission whereas in Denmark you are free to go in,” he says when explaining the thought-process behind his decision.
 
It was a move that paid off and Eriksen will renew acquaintances with Chelsea knowing that Tottenham’s season is on the line. There remains the chance of a top-four finish in the Premier League but after their collapse against Fiorentina, the stakes at Wembley have been raised.
 
Spurs can, though, take comfort from their remarkable success against Chelsea earlier in the campaign. “People just had happier faces,” Eriksen says of that victory. “There was more smiling and everyone was just excited that we won. Maybe they [Chelsea] got a knock on their confidence because they had a lot of games when they were unbeaten.
 
“The confidence we take from that game is the most important thing. We showed that we can play against them and beat them. We played a few games before where we tried and did not succeed, but we showed now that we can and that gives us a lot of confidence.”
 
Eriksen’s nine league goals from midfield have accounted for 13 points this season. His late strikes against Hull City, Swansea City and Sunderland secured wins and, along with Harry Kane, he has been the man Pochettino has relied upon when the chips are down. “I don’t know if I’ve become a better player, I think I’ve just been more stable,” he says. “When you’re young – I probably still am at 23, though I don’t feel so young any more – you have your ups and downs. Luckily, there haven’t been that many, of course there are still a few, but if you get those out I think I am still on the right path.”
 
With praise and superlatives, though, also comes criticism, a significant dose of which he received from Morten Olsen – the Denmark coach – last autumn following a Euro 2016 qualifier. In October, Olsen, presumably in an attempt to motivate Eriksen, said the midfielder was not making a sufficient impact at international level and that he had not progressed at Spurs, saying: “It is not Ajax any more, this is not development.”
 
Olsen’s words had the intended effect. Since then Eriksen has been a revelation, producing excellent displays either centrally or out wide, and prompting the usual big-move speculation that comes with such form.
 
“It didn’t hurt,” he says of Olsen’s criticism. “I’ve grown up with that. We are a bit aggressive in that way, so I’ve heard it before. I think he made the point a bit more for myself. He took it to the outside and also told me personally. I’ve been used to that for a long time, that players want more because they think I can do better. Sometimes it helps, sometimes it doesn’t. The game after, I think it helped. It’s the national manager, so I trust what he says.
 
“[My dad] was a coach for me when I was seven to 13. He stayed as a coach on the sideline until I moved to Ajax. He was a footballer as well, so he knew a lot of things and he knew what he wanted. There were some times when I had a bad game, he would tell me to do better. Of course I have learned.
 
“I’ve never thought about quitting. I’ve been closing my door pretty hard after I spoke to him, locking the door to my room. But nothing else. So we have the discussion or he has the discussion with me, and I’m listening. And then the day after, it’s a new day and nothing happens. It’s football.”
 
Eriksen has not scored in February, a month that started with a memorable victory over Arsenal but has gradually declined since – as Spurs dropped back out of the top four. A win on Sunday, though, would vindicate Pochettino’s selection in Florence and, says Eriksen, provide Tottenham with a winning mentality going forward. “It is a few years ago [since] they won something here,” he says. “That is what we want to do.
 
“We have a really young team and everyone wants to show off and win something. You get a few chances but this is probably the biggest chance you get. If you get the feeling of winning, you want to have the feeling again. Everyone wants to have that.”
 
Christian Eriksen was speaking at a Tottenham Hotspur Foundation event highlighting the Education and Football Development Centre programme, which provides Academy-standard coaching alongside BTEC and FA level qualifications to create life changing opportunities to young people aged 16-18 not in education, employment or training. For more information, please visit tottenhamhotspur.com/foundation


