http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/12/david-luiz-celebrations-chelsea-shed-end

David Luiz contrite after celebrations in front of Chelsea’s Shed End


David Luiz has insisted he did not fling an elbow at Diego Costa during Paris Saint-Germain’s fiercely contested tie at Chelsea and offered an apology to his former club’s supporters for celebrating his equaliser late in normal time with such gusto in front of the Shed end.
 
The Brazil centre-half, who was making his first return to Stamford Bridge since last summer’s £48m move to PSG, appeared to connect with Costa four minutes before the interval on Wednesday night but did not draw a sanction from the referee, Björn Kuipers. David Luiz was eventually booked for confronting the striker after the interval, his caution awarded for simulation as he claimed he had been head-butted, but he has since moved to suggest he has no lingering problems with Costa.
 
“It’s always a battle to play against Diego Costa,” David Luiz said. “He is a fantastic player but, if people are talking about an elbow, they can talk about when Costa gave me the elbow in the diaphragm. It is normal. Diego is a very good friend, he is having an amazing season, and I’m very happy for him. He is a fantastic guy, physically very strong, and one of the best strikers at the moment. It is good to play against fantastic players like him.”
 
Asked to clarify whether he had elbowed the forward, the centre-half reiterated: “No.” José Mourinho had suggested post-match that Uefa might punish the player retrospectively, despite having awarded the defender its man-of-the-match award, if television evidence suggested foul play. Yet it is understood sanction is unlikely, while European football’s governing body will also review Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s dismissal next Thursday when its disciplinary committee meets, but only to determine whether it merits more than a one-match ban.
 
Dismissals are usually only overturned in cases of mistaken identity, with Kuipers having seen the Swede’s challenge with Oscar and decided, almost instantaneously, that it warranted the player’s fourth Champions League sending off despite the striker insisting he had attempted to pull out of the tackle. His departure had left PSG depleted after a little over half an hour, only to prevail on away goals at the end of extra-time.
 
“The sending-off made it difficult, but it didn’t change our gameplan,” David Luiz added. “We spoke together at half-time and said we needed to keep to our plan to try to keep possession of the ball and take any opportunities we had to score. Every single player gave everything, and we deserved it. For me, it was so emotional. I was very happy when I played here from the first day to the last. Then I moved to an amazing club and I am happy to be in Paris, but I still respect Chelsea a lot. I need to say ’sorry’ because I said, if I scored, I wouldn’t celebrate. But there was too much emotion to keep in.”


