http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/27/liverpool-brendan-rodgers-fans-protest-hull-ticket-rise

Liverpool’s Brendan Rodgers ‘as hungry as I’ve ever been’ for trophies


Brendan Rodgers has said he is fiercely committed to bringing silverware to Liverpool and respects the right of the club’s supporters to boycott Tuesday’s Premier League game at Hull City over rising ticket prices.
 
The Liverpool manager received severe criticism following the FA Cup semi-final defeat to Aston Villa and responded with an appeal to the club’s owners, Fenway Sports Group, to be forceful in this summer’s transfer market having missed out on several leading targets in recent windows.
 
On Saturday, during a drab goalless draw at West Bromwich Albion, Rodgers spent a period of the second half sat on the ground with his back to the advertising hoardings, rather than patrolling his technical area as usual.
 
While he had a simple explanation for his seating arrangement at The Hawthorns, Rodgers stressed events post-Wembley should not be interpreted as evidence of despondency on his part.
 
Rodgers remains determined to bring FSG’s long-term goals for Liverpool to fruition. “They have removed the benches from the dugouts at West Brom, so I actually had nowhere to sit,” he said of Saturday’s images. “My two assistants were sat on the ice box and I had to sit on the floor. For me, I am as hungry as I have ever been. I am ambitious to win and there is no greater place than here to win and I am still committed and motivated to do that here for sure.”
           Brendan Rodgers says Daniel Sturridge may not play for the remainder of the season due to injury.    
Tuesday marks the 25th anniversary of Liverpool’s 18th and last league championship triumph and Rodgers is adamant he can end the wait for No19. “When I came in here, it was a long way off,” he said. “The club was eighth and you’d never have even talked about it but I think it’s a mark of how the club has moved forward that there is such disappointment we haven’t challenged this year. I have absolutely no doubt it will happen.
 
“It is difficult [compared to the resources of Chelsea and Manchester City] but you can’t just accept it. Where we are now is probably par for where we sit in amongst it. We can’t accept that, we have to continue to find ways to develop players, work to the idea of how the owners want to work and find a way to break in. That’s something that I’m very hungry to do. And I won’t rest in my time here until we do.”
 
Liverpool’s game at Hull could be boycotted by over 500 supporters in protest at rising ticket prices at the KC Stadium and throughout the Premier League. Last season Liverpool fans were charged £35 for the match against Steve Bruce’s team. A full-priced match ticket for Tuesday’s game costs £48, after a £2 subsidy from Liverpool via the Premier League away fans initiative, whereas Stoke City supporters were charged £16 for their trip to the KC in August and Everton fans £35 in December.
 
The club’s allocation of 2,506 tickets has sold out for Hull but the Spirit of Shankly supporters group has urged fans to buy a £10 child’s ticket and boycott the game instead.
 
Protests are planned outside Anfield and the Premier League’s headquarters in London before the match. Rodgers said: “I don’t know so much about it but they work very hard to earn the money to get to football games and they have a right to protest.”


