http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/jan/27/diego-costa-chelsea-liverpool-capital-one-cup

Diego Costa tries to light up Chelsea with his dark arts against Liverpool | Barney Ronay


Oh, Diego. Whatever are we going to do with you? This Capital One Cup semi-final second leg always seemed likely to provide an epic instalment in the season’s third-string competition – and so it did on a dirty, messy, thrilling night at Stamford Bridge. We came expecting expansive football from two teams overloaded with nimble attacking-midfielders. What we got, in the first hour at least, was a peculiar twin-track thing.
 
On the one hand here was a match that resembled at times a drunken scuffle, not least in a poisonous first half centred on Diego Costa, a player who seems to run on pure, cold-blooded footballing rage. Meanwhile, below the headline drama of stamps and grapples there was a parallel match taking place in which Philippe Coutinho was the leading man early on in a series of high-velocity Liverpool attacks aimed at the tender rump of Chelsea’s defence. And from which Costa and Eden Hazard ultimately emerged as the dominant figures as Chelsea won 1-0 to reach their first Wembley final since José Mourinho’s return.
 
For all that at times in the first half Chelsea resembled a boxer with a cloudy head, snarling and spitting and trying desperately to change the momentum of the contest. Costa is a player who might have been made to order for nights such as these, a striker who plays so close to the edge he appears to have no real idea the edge even exists in the first place, and who has at all times his fingernails dug right into the opposition forearm.
 
He is in every sense a wrestler: an opponent who looks constantly for a way to apply his strength to your weaknesses, mental and physical. With Liverpool pressing high up the pitch in one of those familiar fast starts, Chelsea were briefly rattled. Passes went astray. Nemanja Matic seemed to be the only player in possession of a defensive instruction manual and Liverpool were finding space on the flanks, with Raheem Sterling a menace cutting in from the left. At which point, enter Diego part one.
 
With only 11 minutes gone Costa did as Costa sometimes does, standing on Emre Can’s ankle by the touchline in front of the dugouts.
 
Chelsea’s bench leapt up as a familiar scene of jostling and finger-jabbing unfurled, while Costa himself simply shrugged and walked away. As tactics for disrupting Liverpool’s smooth start go this was certainly one from the folder labelled Dark Arts. It was a case of hiding in plain sight, too, with the fourth official only yards away but apparently unable to detect what was clearly a deliberate stepping-on, a malicious foul that deserved a red card.
 
Eleven minutes later, with Liverpool still looking the more coherent attacking force, enter Diego part two. This time Costa fell over once again in the area under pressure from Martin Skrtel , drawing neither a penalty nor a booking. Chelsea’s centre-forward was hard done by on this occasion: there was contact and it looked a clear penalty. Then again when you play on the edge and the lines become blurred you will find yourself on the wrong side at times. Here was a player who should have gone for a stamp utterly aghast at not getting a penalty for a trip only minutes later. You have to admire his chutzpah but as a famous scouser once said, instant Karma is occasionally going to get you, Diego old son.
 
As half-time approached Coutinho continued to show dazzling speed and control, skipping round Cesc Fàbregas like a man very daintily avoiding a traffic bollard and shooting low, only for Thibaut Courtois to save brilliantly. Meanwhile, Chelsea continued to grab on to whatever Costa could offer them, content for now to keep their heads above water. It was not pretty. In fact, it was downright ornery and ragged but by sheer force of will Chelsea’s most visible presence in that opening half did manage to haul his team back into this match as they began to provide in the second half some sustained passages of the fluid football that has characterised their season.
 
With Costa in more orthodox raging-bull centre-forward mode, suddenly it was Liverpool who were stretched. This was good Diego – most of the time – a centre-forward who manages to be everywhere, socks rolled down, bandy legs pumping, worrying away at the opposition with great abrasive intelligence all around the attacking half of the pitch. As extra time ticked away Costa was finally booked for shoving a damp blue glove into Steven Gerrard’s face, drawing a retaliatory head-to-head, but by that stage we had all gone over into Diego’s world and this seemed fairly tame stuff.
 
Spare a thought in this for Mario Balotelli, who might have been expected to provide similar bite and movement for Liverpool this season. His first shot here as a substitute hit the second tier of the Matthew Harding end. The Italian hung his head. Oh for a little spirit of Diego here – the good bits, of course.
 
Balotelli it was who was closest to actually marking Branislav Ivanovic as Chelsea’s right-back rose to head in the only goal of the game from Willian’s free-kick. On the touchline Mourinho missed the goal. He was too busy making an animated point to the fourth official. It was a moment that seemed to sum up a thrilling League Cup semi-final, all snarls and spite and sucker punches in the middle of which a hugely absorbing football match just kept on breaking out.


