http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/26/chelsea-warning-fans-antisemitism-league-one-cup-final-tottenham

Chelsea warn fans over antisemitism at League Cup final v Tottenham


Chelsea have warned supporters they will take the strongest possible action against any groups or individuals who aim antisemitic abuse at Tottenham Hotspur fans during the Capital One Cup final.
 
The club, having consulted the Metropolitan police and Spurs, and conscious of events on the Paris Métro last week, published a statement on their website reminding supporters of their responsibilities on what is likely to prove a tense occasion at Wembley on Sunday.
 
Chelsea pointed out that terms used by some fans “as a form of identity” – by implication the word “Yid”, which has been adopted by large sections of the Tottenham support – can also be considered deeply offensive.
 
With that in mind, they called for calm surrounding the derby fixture. “For a small minority, this game has historically brought a deeply unpleasant and unwanted level of antisemitic abuse, which has no place in football or anywhere in society,” read a club statement. “As such, we urge everyone to keep their support positive.
 
“Opposition supporters using terms as a form of identity is no excuse for abusive chanting or behaviour. The club asks that all supporters realise such actions cause huge offence to those around them. If we receive evidence supporters have engaged in antisemitic or any other form of discriminatory chanting or behaviour, we will take the strongest possible action, including supporting criminal prosecution.”
 
The game will be played to the backdrop of troubling recent events, with Chelsea having suspended five supporters allegedly filmed singing “We’re racists” and pushing a black commuter from a Paris Métro train. Seven men sought in connection with racist chanting at St Pancras International station after Chelsea’s 1-1 draw with Paris Saint-Germain have also been identified, the British transport police have confirmed.
 
A group of presumed West Ham fans were filmed chorusing an antisemitic chant on a train as they travelled through Stamford Hill on Sunday to their game at White Hart Lane, prompting an investigation by the club to identify the culprits.
 
The anti-discrimination group Kick It Out contacted police after seeing that footage, with their chairman, Lord Ouseley, having since urged the authorities to “swamp Wembley” in an attempt to prevent trouble at Sunday’s game. “We have always had a lot of complaints when Spurs play Chelsea,” he said. “We have got to have a high [police] presence.”
 
Chelsea are keen to demonstrate that last week’s incident in France was an isolated act perpetrated by a small minority. “Recent events in Paris have seen Chelsea fans united in their contempt for a mindless few,” continued the statement. “Chelsea is proud of the diversity within our club and our vision embraces equality regardless of race, gender, sexuality, disability or religion. We all share the common cause of supporting our team.
 
“We launched the Building Bridges campaign in 2010 to promote equality and have worked hard to combat all forms of discrimination both at Stamford Bridge and in our communities.” The club had been swift to condemn those guilty of the chants in Paris, working with the police on both sides of the Channel to identify and suspend five fans pending further investigation. They will issue banning orders for life if there is sufficient evidence to confirm the involvement of that quintet in the incident.


