http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/17/jose-mourinho-jurgen-klopp-not-coming-chelsea

José Mourinho: Jürgen Klopp told me personally he’s not coming to Chelsea


José Mourinho says he is comfortable in his position and believes Chelsea are the most abused team in the Premier League merely because of their success.
 
The Chelsea manager moved quickly to dismiss ideas that Chelsea could be a potential destination for outgoing Borussia Dortmund coach Jürgen Klopp: “The only thing I know is he’s not coming to Chelsea,” Mourinho said. “He told me that personally, so I’m calm.”
 
Research from anti-discrimination body Kick It Out showed the Blues were the Premier League club to receive the highest volume of discriminatory posts on social media.
 
When asked about the findings, Mourinho said: “I think because we are boring. Top of the league since day one. It’s something in this country people don’t like.”
 
Chelsea are seven points clear with seven games to play, having led from the opening round of fixtures.
 
“I think everybody would love the Premier League to be like the Championship at the moment, with four teams separated by a couple of points. I know this is the ideal scenario in the Premier League. But since day one we are there and we are trying not to allow that to happen. We have big determination to be champions.”
 
The Chelsea striker Loïc Rémy could return from a calf injury in time for Saturday’s Premier League game against Manchester United on Saturday. The Frenchman missed last week’s 1-0 win at Queens Park Rangers, as did his fellow forward Diego Costa, who could return from his hamstring injury against Arsenal next week.
 
“What’s in my mind is just to win three points tomorrow,” said Mourinho. “After that we’ll see what happens. To play against Manchester United is to play against one of biggest clubs in the world. This is the game everybody wants to play in. It is an easy job. Everyone is excited to play.”
 
United have been hit with a string of injuries this week, leaving them short in central defence and defensive midfield, but the Portuguese was dismissive of the impact this could have on the outcome.
 
“Their squad is amazing – in numbers and quality,” Mourinho said. “I know Mr Van Gaal very well and consider him a big, big friend. He is a fantastic coach and they are more than ready.”


