http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/06/everton-liverpool-john-stones-merseyside-derby-premier-league

John Stones: ‘A strong Everton can stop whatever Liverpool can throw at us’


Whether loaded with consequence or a mere provincial dispute, a pulsating drama or a tedious bore, the Merseyside derby’s ability to create a lasting impression remains undiminished. As John Stones can attest.
 
“Did I have a bad day the last time or something?” inquires the usually unflappable 20-year-old after a sixth question relating to events at Anfield 13 months ago when he was part of an Everton defence dissected in a 4-0 defeat. The answer to Stones’ one question is no, he was man of the match when the rivals last met in September, but an accomplished display in the 1-1 draw with Liverpool has not banished memories of his first start in a Merseyside derby. Mainly because Daniel Sturridge was not involved when Stones blocked Liverpool earlier this season.
 
Sturridge scored twice and missed a penalty as he and Luis Suárez shredded Everton’s back-line in January 2014, sending the young defender into several days of critical self-analysis. Roberto Martínez’s team were only four points behind Liverpool in the race for Champions League qualification after that heavy reverse and defending far more consistently than this term. Yet the task of shackling an in-form Liverpool and Sturridge, if only as a substitute after six months out injured, does not trouble a player whose calmness and composure is not confined to the pitch. “There are a lot of Premier League strikers who have good movement but can’t score,” says Stones.
 
“But a lot of things come together in Sturridge’s case and that makes him one of the hardest strikers to mark. It’s great for Liverpool and for England that he’s back, but I know that if we are as strong defensively as we were at Crystal Palace last week we can stop whatever Liverpool throw at us.”
 
Everton have more to prove in the 224th Merseyside derby than a defensive improvement against one Liverpool striker, however destructive he can be.
 
Martínez’s team have not found momentum in the Premier League all season and while their rivals are recovering from their own trough to belatedly challenge for the top four, Everton are 12 points below and targeting safety. Last Saturday’s win at Selhurst Park was Everton’s first in any competition since 15 December. A restorative victory over Liverpool would lend substance to the latest talk of a corner being turned.
 
Stones admits: “We did think Jags’ goal [Phil Jagielka’s equaliser at Anfield] would be a turning point and there’s a big bundle of reasons why it didn’t happen but I think we can put our finger on the Palace game and say that was a turning point in our season. We have pretty much half a season now to correct what we didn’t do in the first half. This second half of season is really going to take off for us with the win at Palace.
 
“There was a big relief in the dressing room afterwards, the lads have been craving that feeling of winning again, and it was a massive result for us.
 
“We believe in what we do and in how we play and that’s how we will start winning games again. In the last home game I was putting in crosses from the right wing and that shows the gaffer hasn’t changed how we approach the game. If we stay on that track we will do well. I’m glad we have just concentrated on ourselves and not changed for any other team. There has been a lot said about the fans being frustrated with us and rightly so because we have not been getting results at home but all we can do is correct that by winning games, starting with a big one against Liverpool.”
     John Stones meets participants from Everton in the Community’s Safe Hands programme and joined them in a circuits session at Goodison Park as they prepare for the Liverpool half marathon to raise funds for the club’s official charity. Safe Hands Photograph: Safe Hands    
In many respects Stones’ second full season at Everton reflects that of Martínez and the team. Expectations soared at Goodison Park after a record Premier League points haul in the manager’s debut campaign, so too for the defender from Barnsley, David Moyes’ last signing for Everton, following a stylish adjustment to the top flight that ended on England’s standby list for the World Cup.
 
They have been checked abruptly, in Stones’ case by the three-month lay-off with ankle-ligament damage sustained in only his seventh start of the season, at Manchester United in October. Everton’s disrupted defence suffered too. Of the five clean sheets they have kept in the Premier League this season, three have come with the England international at the heart.
 
“I never watched a clip of the incident because I didn’t want to see how bad it was,” says the £3m bargain buy. “I just remember a massive pain but even then I thought I’d just rolled the ankle and would be out for two weeks. It turned out to be much worse when I had the scan the next day.
 
“It’s taught me how important it is to stay positive. I suppose it’s harder to take when you’re younger, you never see an injury like that coming and it came at a bad time. You can get really low as you’re not kicking a ball about, not in the team and you need to feel accepted again, so you have to believe in yourself.” Stones is not the only youngster in that position.
 
The Everton defender was praised for his “whole-hearted” commitment to community work by the Professional Footballers’ Association in November, having coached wheelchair and autistic teams, helped a student radio station and devoted hours to hospital and school visits. Indeed, shortly before this interview the 20-year-old had been working with young offenders on Everton in the Community’s “Safe Hands” project, a five-year scheme that provides educational and training opportunities for individuals before they leave secure care.
 
Safe Hands has had impressive results, with an 80% non re-offending rate among participants since its launch in 2012 compared to a national average of 27%. “I met them last year and it’s good to see they’re on the right track towards getting their life sorted out,” says Stones. “Some are reds, some are blues and they all wished me good luck for Saturday, although some might not have meant it.”


