http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/12/football-trasnfer-rumours-manchester-united-bastian-schweinsteiger

Football transfer rumours: Man Utd and Chelsea after Bastian Schweinsteiger?


Sometimes you just need a change of scene. The Mill, for example, still enjoys purveying its football tittle-tattle every morning but we’ve also heard that there’s some sort of large event occurring in British politics later this year and we quite fancy a shot at that. “The Mill at Westminster” has quite a nice ring to it, don’t you think? And we’ve got the right skill set: Bob Jones set for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland? Tewkesbury set to swoop for Reginald Pottersmithe? Katherine Watson set for Dudley South exit? That sort of thing.
 
Anyway, the point is: sometimes you just need a change of scene. Bastian Schweinsteiger certainly does. He’s out of contract at Bayern Munich in the summer and the Premier League big boys are “on alert” after hints that he could be prepared to move abroad. Manchester United and Chelsea are on the trail.
 
Joann’s got it. Leonice’s got it. Tonia’s got it. I tell ya, Cheryl’s got it. Boy I tell you Betty’s for it. Chip has got it. And Ann’s got it. Gail’s got it. Stephanie’s got it. And Sabrina’s got it. Rachelle has got it. Yeah, Gladys sure got it. Fontina’s got it. Aaliyah’s got it. Stacy’s got it. I tell ya Tita’s got it. Rita’s got it. Laurel’s got it. Kim’s got it, yeah. They’ve all got that vibe, and next season Swansea will have it too. That’s because Gary Monk wants the Gothenburg hotshot Lasse Vibe as a long-term replacement for Wilfried Bony. The Denmark striker will cost around £2.5m.
 
West Ham’s deal for Lassana Diarra has collapsed owing to pesky paperwork but Sam Allardyce remains keen on signing someone with a bit of Champions League pedigree. The Manchester United striker Javier Hernández is the latest man on Big Sam’s shopping list and, with Real Madrid not keen on turning the Mexico striker’s loan move into a permanent one at the end of the season, the Hammers fancy their chances of landing Chicharito.
 
Arsenal want Real’s Fábio Coentrão. But Ignazio Abate looks to be staying at Milan.
 
And in managerial news, Tim Sherwood has been installed as the favourite to step into Paul Lambert’s shoes at Villa Park. Jürgen Klinsmann, Neil Lennon and David Moyes are all in the hunt too. While at QPR, any move for Michael Laudrup is going to have to wait until the summer as the former Swansea manager is determined to see out his contract in Qatar with Lekhwiya.


