http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/feb/19/daniel-sturridge-liverpool-besiktas-europa-league

Daniel Sturridge struggles to rev up Liverpool on his European debut | Paul Wilson


Say what you like about Brendan Rodgers but he is not afraid to offer a hostage to fortune. The Liverpool manager was grateful for a late penalty after inviting a certain amount of pre-match mockery by claiming his side might have gone on to win the Champions League had they only managed to negotiate its group stage, though one could understand his frustration in not having his strongest attacking line-up available until this stage of the season. After doing so well to finish second and earn a Champions League place last season, Liverpool had effectively lost Luis Suárez and Daniel Sturridge by the time the games came around, and the frustration of the latter at having to wait two years to make his European debut for the club can only be guessed at.
 
Sturridge was ineligible for Liverpool’s Europa League games the season before last and missed the first half of the present campaign through injury, so this was a big night for a player who contributed 24 goals from 33 appearances last term, not least because his manager and captain went out of their way to show their confidence in him. Rodgers suggested Liverpool had returned to something like their best with Sturridge back in the side, while Steven Gerrard said the striker had already made a big impact. “Daniel’s record speaks for itself, and with him back in the side we carry a huge threat,” Gerrard said.
 
That’s pressure, if you like, though Sturridge would not expect anything less. He made his first European start at Anfield in something less than Liverpool’s strongest side, with Gerrard out injured, Raheem Sterling on the bench and Lazar Markovic suspended. Even so, Sturridge was on the end of the first chance after just four minutes, courtesy of a fine through ball from Jordon Ibe on the right. The striker might have opted to hit the ball first time, but took a touch instead, elegantly beat Ersan Gulum then found himself shooting from such a narrow angle that there was no way past the goalkeeper.
 
Ibe made a couple more encouraging contributions during the first half, without really providing the pace or penetration Liverpool were looking for. Sturridge cut a somewhat isolated figure as a result, with Besiktas closing off Philippe Coutinho’s options through the middle and most of the home attacks reaching no further than the edge of the visitors’ penalty area.
 
Sturridge did have a shot from that distance that briefly worried Cenk Gonen five minutes before the interval, though the fact that Liverpool’s first threat on goal for half an hour came direct from a free-kick told its own story. Adam Lallana did see a shot bravely blocked by Gulum, but before Alberto Moreno brought a fingertip save from Cenk from an absurd distance on the stroke of half-time the most clear-cut chances had been created by Besiktas. Rodgers’ contention that this Liverpool side could have made a name for itself in the Champions League knockout stages would have looked even more fanciful had Veli Kavlak been more accurate with a header from a corner or had Demba Ba shown the sort of composure with only Simon Mignolet to beat that cost Liverpool so dear last season.
 
Sterling, coming back from injury, remained on the bench at the start of the second half and though Ibe again began promisingly, beating opponents with pace as well as trickery, the final ball to play in Sturridge remained elusive. Inevitably, when a chance did present itself it fell to the wrong person. Adam Lallana is not the strongest of finishers but even so he might have done better from the six-yard line after Cenk spilled a cross in a mix-up with Pedro Franco. All Lallana had to do was hit the target, but with the goalkeeper recovering quickly enough to put him off, he sent his shot too high.
 
Emre Can was lucky to get away with a stray back pass that fell to Ba, of all people, as Liverpool continued to live dangerously at the back, and when José Sosa put a free-kick on to the roof of the net it was a reminder that Slaven Bilic does not normally send out teams merely to defend. On this evidence, Liverpool had better stop thinking about what might have happened in the Champions League and begin worrying about what might befall them next week in Istanbul. Besiktas look a tidy and accomplished side, and though a one-goal lead from a debatable penalty is better than nothing, there was little else here to suggest Liverpool can take anything for granted, or that they are anywhere near the level of last season.


