http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/18/thibaut-courtois-chelsea-john-terry-petr-cech

Thibaut Courtois is in a different class, says Chelsea’s John Terry


John Terry has hailed Thibaut Courtois’ impact in the Chelsea first-team this season while heaping praise upon the club’s long-standing No1, Petr Cech, for his professionalism after seeing his place in the side usurped.
 
Courtois was outstanding at Parc des Princes on Tuesday night as the Premier League leaders secured a potentially valuable 1-1 draw at Paris Saint-Germain in the first leg of their Champions League knockout tie. The young Belgian, who had spent the previous three seasons on loan at Atlético Madrid, had been rested for last week’s victory over Everton when Cech had produced two eye-catching saves to deny Romelu Lukaku and help maintain the side’s seven point advantage at the top of the division.
 
Yet Cech returned to the bench in Paris, with Courtois reserving his best block to deny Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s header in stoppage time at the end. “Courtois is different class,” said Terry. “I saw enough of him in the semi-finals last season [when Atlético knocked Chelsea out 3-1 on aggregate]. It’s unlucky for Big Pete because he made two unbelievable saves from Lukaku against Everton, but he has been unbelievably professional around the club this season. I’ve seen a lot of players in my time throw their toys out of the pram but he’s been different class for the team, and that’s been important.”
 
José Mourinho faces an awkward decision next month when he chooses his lineup for the Capital One Cup final against Tottenham Hotspur. Cech played in the early rounds of the competition, only for Courtois to feature in both legs of the semi-final against Liverpool as the London club prevailed 2-1 on aggregate.
 
“The manager stresses the importance of the team coming first,” said Terry. “They’re both there for the whole squad. Both of them have been excellent. We’ve got the two best goalkeepers in the world, in my opinion, both fighting for one place, so it’s difficult. You can’t keep them both happy. The manager manages to do it, I don’t know how. Obviously they both want to play all the time, but the two of them are at the top of their games. Rotating them is a tough job. I’d rather that was the manager’s decision.”
 
Asked whether he thought Cech would seek to move at the end of the season, ending what would be an 11-year career at Stamford Bridge, the captain added: “We’ve not even spoken and credit to Pete: he’s not grumbled or sent shockwaves through the dressing room. He’s been really professional. He knows he’s been a top keeper and still has a lot to give. He’s fighting for his place. He hasn’t just given up and said: ‘It’s yours, Thibaut’. When he’s come in he’s been brilliant and given the manager food for thought. He could play for anyone, and he’s been different class for us. He’s been worth 10-12 points every season.”
 
Chelsea’s goal in Paris was scored by Branislav Ivanovic, the right-back nodding in after Terry’s cross was flicked on by Gary Cahill. The Serb has scored critical winners against Liverpool and Aston Villa in recent weeks, and now boasts more goals – seven – than any other defender in the Champions League over the last six years. “He has scored some important goals for us,” said Terry.
 
“Look at the Liverpool one a couple of weeks ago. He pops up in the final of the Europa League [in 2013], too. He really is a top player for the team. It’s a desire and hunger he’s got, and the aggression and strength to want to get in those positions and out-strength the opponent.
 
“He was one of the lads who hadn’t trained since Everton. There have been a few of them. One or two turned out for the cameras [on Monday]. That’s what it’s about at this time of year, players digging deep. We’ve been lucky until now with injuries and niggles but everyone got through the game okay and we’ve got a bit of time after the Burnley game, but first we’ve got a massive three points to get at the weekend.
 
“With us playing Spurs the following weekend in the final, that’ll be an opportunity for Manchester City to close the gap, so it’s really important that we pick up points against Burnley. They’ve shown away to City that they’re fighting. Where we are and they are in the table means nothing. We’ll certainly be up for it.”


