http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/28/tottenham-wembley-sheffield-un-ited-semi-final

Christian Eriksen steers Spurs to Wembley and warns of Chelsea ‘revenge’


Christian Eriksen scored the late equaliser against Sheffield United that took Tottenham Hotspur into the Capital One Cup final against Chelsea, then warned that José Mourinho’s side will be seeking revenge for their 5‑3 defeat on New Year’s Day. The Dane had opened the scoring with a superb first-half free-kick to give Spurs a 2-0 aggregate lead in the tie and they looked to be cruising to the Wembley final on 1 March. But goals on 77 and 79 minutes from Che Adams, an 18-year-old second-half substitute, looked like taking the sides into extra time before Eriksen’s second of the night.
 
“Sheffield United definitely gave us a big fight. They gained confidence after they scored their first goal, the second one was a bit lucky but we came back at the end,” Eriksen said. “This season when we have been in front we have given stupid goals away and it is something we need to stop doing,” he added, before saying the west London club will want to avenge the defeat at Spurs on 1 January. “Chelsea will probably want revenge in the final but I am really looking forward it.”
  
 Related: Sheffield United 2-2 Tottenham Hotspur (Tottenham win 3-2 on agg) | Capital One Cup 
   
The manager, Mauricio Pochettino, admitted he was concerned when Adams scored twice in 140 seconds. “For sure, I was worried, it is football. Over the two legs we deserved to go to Wembley but you need to create chances, score and kill the game,” he said. “We gave the possibility to Sheffield and when they scored the second goal it was difficult. Football is emotion. Now we are happy for the players, they deserve the right to play at Wembley and for our supporters it is the most important goal.”
 
The meeting with Chelsea will be a rematch of the 2008 final, which Spurs won 2-1, the last time the north London club claimed a trophy. “It is my first final at Wembley, it is new to me and new to a lot of our players, but we will enjoy it,” said Pochettino.”
 
Nigel Clough was a crestfallen but proud United manager. “It’s disappointing that we didn’t take it to extra time and everyone is down, to say the least. But the players can’t give any more than they did and it wasn’t quite enough,” he said. “It was just that bit of quality that made the difference tonight. Both of Eriksen’s goals were superb.”


