http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/07/tottenham-hotspur-harry-kane-north-london-derby

Tottenham Hotspur’s Harry Kane hails fans after derby he ‘won’t forget’


Harry Kane described his match-winning double in the north London derby as “special and incredible”, a performance that came with Roy Hodgson watching in the stands, and one that could result in an England call-up.
 
Kane scored in the 56th minute and in the closing stages of an enthralling match between Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal, won 2-1 at the death by Spurs, who had fallen behind after Mesut Özil’s early goal.
  
 Related: Tottenham Hotspur 2-1 Arsenal | Premier League match report 
   
The 21-year-old has enjoyed a remarkable campaign so far, scoring 20 times in all competitions and 10 Premier League goals. England play Lithuania in a European Championship qualifier next month and Kane is expected to be named in Hodgson’s squad.
 
After his first north London derby, Kane said: “It was incredible, the fans were incredible and the atmosphere was lightning. They made it better for us, we played our football, and that feeling is one I won’t forget probably for the rest of my career. I enjoy my football; play with a smile on your face, do the best you can and work as hard as you can for the team.
 
“I’m enjoying it, I just want to be out on that pitch and playing with my mates, playing with the people that I’m around every day. I don’t think I can put it into words. Obviously, my first north London derby, to win the way we did and dig deep, it’s incredible. I probably won’t sleep tonight.”
  
 Related: Harry Kane enters Tottenham folklore and an England future beckons | Jacob Steinberg 
   
The result ensured that Spurs leapfrogged Arsenal in the Premier League table and the Tottenham manager, Mauricio Pochettino, believes Kane has “massive potential”.
 
“Harry, today, showed that he is a great player – it was a great performance,” said Pochettino. “But he still can improve; he can improve and we need to push him to develop his potential. His potential is massive. It’s true that Harry is in a very good moment. I would like to congratulate him and the players. It is a special three points, but we need to look forward.”
 
Of Kane’s England chances, Arsène Wenger, the Arsenal manager, said: “When you have scored the number of goals he has scored, if you don’t put him in there, someone will give him a passport in another country.”


