http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/12/steven-gerrard-defends-chelsea-players-referee-psg

Steven Gerrard defends Chelsea players’ ‘normal’ pressuring of referee


Steven Gerrard has defended Chelsea’s behaviour against Paris Saint-Germain and admitted that all top players are guilty of “not abiding by the rules at some time”.
 
The Liverpool captain was speaking at the launch of an all-star charity match at Anfield alongside Jamie Carragher, who labelled Chelsea attempts to pressure Bjorn Kuipers, the Dutch referee, into dismissing Zlatan Ibrahimovic during their Champions League exit on Wednesday as “disgraceful”. While the former Liverpool team-mates were united in their view of English club’s poor performance in the Champions League this season, Gerrard offered a contrasting take on Chelsea’s actions at Stamford Bridge.
 
“It’s normal at that level,” the former England captain said. “Players want to win so much, managers want to win so much, and they’ll try every trick in the book to get over the line. We have all been guilty of not abiding by the rules at some time but PSG were the better team on the night and good luck to them going forward.”
 
Carragher claimed Chelsea’s gamesmanship was indicative of a José Mourinho team but Gerrard said: “I don’t think Mourinho will be interested in whether it tarnishes his legacy or not. Every player has got respect for him and he’ll win more titles as he goes along. He’ll go down as one of the best managers of all time. I’ve only got respect for him.”
 
The Liverpool captain added: “It has not been our year but English clubs will come back. It is not a crisis. The teams will bounce back. Chelsea, City, Arsenal and ourselves will make signings this summer and come back stronger. It has happened before. It is not a major problem but I don’t think English clubs have been good enough this season.”
 
Gerrard and Carragher were at Anfield to publicise a charity game on 29 March in which Luis Suárez, Fernando Torres, Xabi Alonso, Dirk Kuyt and Pepe Reina return to their former club, and that will also feature the Chelsea duo John Terry and Didier Drogba. Thierry Henry has confirmed, too.
 
“Many people in John’s position would have turned away,” said Gerrard of his call to the Chelsea captain. “But he jumped at the chance to help the charities [Alder Hey children’s hospital and Claire House children’s hospice among them] and to play at Anfield. That shows what kind of man he is. He might get some stick but nothing he hasn’t had before.”
 
The 34-year-old has missed Liverpool’s last seven matches through injury but confirmed he is fit for Monday’s Premier League visit to Swansea City.
 
Gerrard said: “I am just over a hamstring injury, I’m fit and available, and I want to leave the club in the top four and go all the way in the FA Cup. That’s how I want to sign off.”


