http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/20/liverpool-mario-balotelli-disrespect-steven-gerrard-penalty

Liverpool’s Mario Balotelli accused of disrespect by Gerrard over penalty


Steven Gerrard accused Mario Balotelli of showing disrespect to Liverpool’s stand-in captain, Jordan Henderson, by taking the penalty that clinched a Europa League victory over Besiktas.
 
Balotelli scored the 85th-minute spot-kick to give Brendan Rodgers’ team a slender 1-0 lead to take to Istanbul next week, but only after a dispute with Henderson and Daniel Sturridge over who should take it. Rodgers refused to comment on the controversy after the game or even confirm Henderson was Liverpool’s designated penalty-taker in the absence of the hamstrung Gerrard.
  
 Related: Daniel Sturridge struggles to rev up Liverpool on his European debut | Paul Wilson 
   
The club captain was more forthcoming in his role as an ITV pundit at Anfield, however, and criticised his Italian team-mate for insisting on the responsibility. Balotelli has now scored 27 of 29 penalties in his career but Gerrard said: “Jordan should have taken the penalty. Rules are rules. It should have been Henderson. Mario has been a bit mischievous.
 
“Credit to Mario, he’s scored,” he added. “But it’s not nice to see when footballers are arguing. I think Jordan has handled the situation very well. He can see that Mario really wanted to score.
 
“Jordan walked away at the right moment and handled his post-match interview very well. Jordan is the captain and Mario showed Jordan a bit of disrespect there, but he’s scored a very important goal.
 
“I think six or seven players would have wanted to take that penalty, so if they all say they are taking it, what happens then? Rules are in place for a reason.”
 
Liverpool’s penalty followed a foul by Ramon Motta on Jordon Ibe, and Besiktas will be without the left-back plus the central defender Ersan Gulum for next week’s second leg because of suspension. Henderson said: “It was great play by Jordon. I wanted the penalty but Mario felt confident and he has taken big penalties before. It was a great penalty in the end. It’s a big goal for us.
 
“Everyone wants to take them. I felt confident but so did Mario, he has taken big penalties before and he got the nod. That’s a big goal for us. We know it’s not done yet. There is still plenty to play for. We have to go there with the same mentality and defend like we did and look to hurt them on the break. We’re happy with the result.”
 
Balotelli would later take to Instagram in an attempt to defuse the situation. He wrote: “Thank you hendo for let me take the penalty. Stop drama now. We won that’s what it count. We are a team and especially we are Liverpool. Come on guys.”
 
Liverpool’s manager described the night as “an excellent result and an excellent performance” but steadfastly refused to be drawn into another Balotelli debate.
  
 Related: Liverpool 1-0 Besiktas | Europa League last-32 first leg match report 
   
Asked for the first time for his thoughts on the penalty, Rodgers replied: “Steven [Gerrard] should have took it. Steven is our penalty-taker. We got the win which is the most important factor. I have a number of outstanding penalty-takers with Jordan and Mario and Rickie Lambert. You see the spirit in the team and to get the win was excellent.”
 
Asked a second time whether Balotelli should have taken the spot-kick, Rodgers said: “We won the game.” Finally, the Liverpool manager was asked to clarify that Henderson was the designated penalty-taker before kick-off.
 
“I am clarifying that we won the game 1-0,” he said.
 
Rodgers was more effusive on Liverpool’s first win in six European games.
 
He said: “It was always going to be a tight game. I believe Besiktas have scored in every away game so it shows our defensive organisation that we kept a clean sheet. Simon Mignolet made an outstanding save in the first half [from Demba Ba]. We created chances and moved the ball quicker in the second half. It was a perfect result and sets up for the second leg next week.”
 
The Besiktas coach, Slaven Bilic, insisted the tie was far from over.
 
“Of course, when you concede a late penalty you are gutted and from our point of view it wouldn’t be unfair if it finished 0-0 or 1-1,” said Bilic.“We deserved a bit more but from their side they deserved maybe the one goal. They were putting from the bench really class players like Balotelli and Sterling. They were making counterattacks that were very dangerous but we are very much alive and definitely in this game. It is a game of two legs. We definitely have a chance at home to go through.”


