http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/20/raheem-sterling-talks-liverpool-brendan-rodgers

Raheem Sterling contract talks hit deadlock but Liverpool stay calm


Brendan Rodgers has said he cannot predict Raheem Sterling’s future intentions having been told by the 20-year-old that contract talks are on hold with Liverpool until the end of the season.
 
Sterling, following the advice of his representative Aidy Ward, has informed the Liverpool manager that the protracted negotiations over a new contract will not resume until the campaign is over. Officially, Rodgers claimed the reason was the winger’s desire to concentrate on his football and to remove the distraction of a saga that has run since talks began in October.
 
Liverpool have the England international under contract until 2017, so there is no immediate threat of the gifted youngster leaving on his terms, but the latest development is a further indication of the deepening stand-off between the two parties over the terms on offer.
 
Rodgers has said previously that Liverpool will not pay above what they feel a player is worth and that Sterling has been offered “an incredible deal” by the club.
 
On Friday the Liverpool manager announced there was no prospect of a resolution before the end of the season.
 
“I’ve had a good conversation with him and our communication is always open,” said Rodgers. “I hope now it puts to bed whether or not he is going to sign the contract.
 
“I think that’s the intention. The boy has been advised by his adviser and I have had a good conversation with Raheem. He has made clear what his adviser said to him and that is it.”
 
Asked if he suspected Sterling wanted to delay to see if Liverpool qualify for the Champions League before committing his future to Anfield, the manager replied: “I’m not sure it is about that. I think it is purely so he can concentrate on his football. I think he is a young kid that now every time he is interviewed or asked it is about his contract.
 
“What we have been able to do here with Raheem over the last few years is get him to think about nothing from his first waking moment but football. Now it is all about his contract and that is for him and his adviser.
 
“He is a good boy and I know he loves being here and as I said our talk now is only really about football. His representatives with the club can hopefully get something sorted.”
 
But Rodgers, despite his hopes that Sterling will stay at Liverpool amid reports linking him with a move to Chelsea or Manchester City among others, admitted he was unsure about the player’s long-term plans. “I can’t predict what other people are thinking,” he said. “The club have received that advice from his adviser and Raheem has mentioned it to me. That’s it.”
 
Rodgers was speaking in the buildup to Liverpool’s game at home to Manchester United, whose midfielder Michael Carrick has signed a one-year contract extension. Carrick has been one of Louis van Gaal’s best players since he returned from an ankle injury he suffered last summer. The 33-year-old’s contract was due to run out in June.
 
“He is, for me, my second captain behind Wayne Rooney and he can also read the game as a team player so that’s very important,” United’s manager, Van Gaal, said. “He has also an excellent pass forward. I like, as a manager, forward passers so that’s very important for me.”


