http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/18/liverpool-champions-league-besiktas-brendan-rodgers-europa-league

Liverpool see alternative route to Champions League in Besiktas tie


 
 
Brendan Rodgers wants Liverpool to vent their Champions League frustrations on Besiktas after conceding his team have not shown their potential in Europe this season.
 
Liverpool host Slaven Bilic’s side in the last 32 of the Europa League on Thursday as a consequence of an underwhelming return to the Champions League earlier in the campaign, when they exited at the group stage with a solitary win over Ludogorets Razgrad. Rodgers, who expects to have Raheem Sterling fit to face the Turkish league leaders, remains irritated by their early departure and the contributory factors of Daniel Sturridge’s injuries plus the integration of several new players.
 
But, after only one defeat in the last 16 games, the Liverpool manager believes the Europa League represents a chance to atone for that disappointment as well as qualify for the Champions League as competition winners.
 
“The frustration of the Champions League was that we put in two years of hard work to get to that stage and when we arrived there we didn’t have the team to show our way of working,” said Rodgers. “It was not us earlier in the season and I was always hopeful we could still be in the Champions League at this stage and show our way of working. It was not to be but this is still a very good competition and we will attack these games against Besiktas like we have in the last few months.
 
“It is a very prestigious tournament. You have seen Liverpool under Gérard Houllier win the Uefa Cup, and for me this is the Uefa Cup. It is a tournament that has some wonderful teams in it and we want to win it. We are at a different stage now with a different mentality and these games will be tough, but our objective is to take a lead over to Turkey. There is no reason why we can’t do that with the form we are in.”
 
Besiktas suffered a Champions League record 8-0 defeat on their last visit to Anfield in November 2007 and their journey to Merseyside on Wednesday was delayed by snow and air traffic problems in Istanbul. Bilic’s team, however, finished above Tottenham Hotspur in the group stage and remain top in Turkey after a 3-2 win over Bursaspor on Sunday. The victory came courtesy of a 94th-minute penalty by Demba Ba, the former Chelsea striker who punctured Liverpool’s Premier League title hopes at Anfield in April.
 
“It won’t stimulate any bad memories for me,” said Rodgers of Ba’s return. “He had a very fruitful period in England. We see him as a threat and we will pay him respect but nothing more than that.”
 
The tie will represent Sturridge’s European debut for Liverpool, two years after he joined the club from Chelsea. The England international was ineligible for Liverpool’s Europa League games after his arrival in January 2013 and injured throughout this season’s Champions League campaign. He admits watching Liverpool lose at Real Madrid and exit behind Basel added to his torment on the sidelines.
 
Sturridge said: “It’s incredible to think this is my European debut with Liverpool. I can’t wait to finally get out there. I’ve waited such a long time to play this game. It has been very difficult to sit out and watch all those games we have played in the Champions League without being part of it.
 
“I was there in the Bernabéu with the team and watching the lads from the stands and I admit it wasn’t nice to be sat there watching on a night like that. But it wasn’t just that game in the Bernabéu, every single game was hard for me to watch. I’m over that period now and I have to look forward to what I can achieve, not what I’ve missed.”
 
Liverpool (3-4-2-1, probable): Mignolet; Can, Skrtel, Sakho; Ibe, Henderson, Allen, Moreno; Sterling, Coutinho; Sturridge.
 
Subs from: Lallana, Balotelli, Johnson, Lovren, Manquillo, Lambert, José Enrique, Borini, Ward, Rossiter, Touré, Sinclair.
 
Besiktas (4-2-3-1, probable): Cenk; Serdar, Franco, Ersan, Motta; Veli, Atiba; Tore, Sosa, Olcay; Ba.
 
Subs from: Fidayeo, Nukan, Opare, Oguzhan, Arslan, Necip, Kerim, Ugur, Pektemek, Tosun.
 
Referee: S Marciniak (Poland)


