http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/26/football-transfer-rumours-liverpool-arsenal-luiz-adriano

Football transfer rumours: Liverpool to rival Arsenal for Luiz Adriano?


Juventus have sensationally opened the door to another four months of interminable Paul Pogba-based rumourmongering by revealing the French midfielder, despite signing a four-year contract with the Turin-based giants but a matter of weeks ago, could leave this summer if he really wants to. “Pogba is still master of his own destiny,” their director Giuseppe Marotta said. “If he chooses to leave then it will be hard to keep him.” So far so good, though Marotta also insists that “he’s given no sign that he wants to go away”. But since when has that stopped us, eh?
 
If Pogba remains in Italy, he could well be joined at Joventus by Edin Dzeko, who according to the Mirror are “increasingly confident” they can pip Atlético Madrid to seal a £15m summer deal for the Manchester City striker. Talking of Atleti, Manchester United have agreed terms with Valencia’s Nicolás Otamendi, according to the Metro – although their source is apparently an article in a Spanish newspaper that is largely about how Atlético want to sign the Valencia defender, and insists that “the Otamendi saga has only just begun”. And if there’s one thing the Mill likes better than a juicy bit of transfer gossip, it’s a juicy bit of transfer gossip that it will be able to repeat with minor tweaks and variations for several wonderful months.
 
Chelsea are going to sign Valencia’s André Gomes, and have already tabled a £25.7m bid for the Portuguese midfielder. He may get to Stamford Bridge too late to meet Petr Cech, who has been told he can go wherever he likes if he ends up leaving this summer, even if he picks one of the club’s Premier League rivals. Liverpool and Arsenal are both among the bench-bound shot-stopper’s admirers, and could meet his club’s £10m asking price, though the 32-year-old’s insistence on a three-year contract could rule out the notoriously ageist Arsène Wenger.
 
The battle for Cech is but one of (at least) three that will pit Arsenal against Liverpool this summer, with the clubs set to duel for the Shakhtar Donetsk striker Luiz Adriano, whose contract runs until December whereupon, he admits, “it will be difficult to stay in Ukraine”, while the Telegraph reveals that Liverpool have joined the Gunners in the chase for Internazionale’s Croatian whizzkid Mateo Kovacic.
 
Manchester United could also be in the market for a new goalkeeper, should David de Gea be stolen away from Old Trafford by Real Madrid, and have decided that Stoke’s Asmir Begovic would fit the bill rather nicely. In further goalkeeping news, Hull fancy having another go at signing Malmo’s Robin Olsen, who they failed to tempt to England in the January transfer window but who has since become even more attractive, being as he is on the verge of Bosman-free-transfer-qualification. And in absolutely final goalkeeping news, in their big transfer exclusive of the day the Express reveal Dundee United’s Radoslaw Cierzniak has emerged as a big summer target for Limassol, the seventh-best side in Cyprus.
 
Everton will sign on-loan Tottenham wingman Aaron Lennon on a permanent deal in the summer if he keeps on playing well, with Roberto Martínez admitting having him around “pleases me a lot”, and considering spending £6m to keep him for good. Doing a less good job of impressing during a loan spell is Alex Song, with West Ham deciding not to complete a long-term deal for their borrowed Barcelona midfielder on the grounds that he isn’t particularly good (though cynics will say that hasn’t stopped them in the past).
 
Swansea’s Neil Taylor is a popular young man, being chased as he is by three Premier League clubs in the shape of Newcastle, Aston Villa and West Bromwich Albion after he put off discussions over a new contract until the end of the season. Southampton want £5m-rated Feyenoord midfielder Tonny Vilhena, who popped over for “secret talks” earlier this month. In other news that didn’t really go anywhere else so we suppose might as well go here, Leicester’s Anthony Knockaert is in discussions with Standard Liège over a summer freebie switch, and Charlie Adam says he’s definitely not going to Real Sociedad.
 
Finally, the Sun exclusively reveal that when such as Dennis Wise and Jody Morris wanted to use the Chelsea training-ground toilet back in their playing days, they would make John Terry sit on it first so the seat was nice and warm for their sensitive derrières. “I’d do anything for them – make their tea and coffee, even silly things like sit on the toilet to make the seat warm for them in the cold winter days at the training ground,” the current Chelsea captain admits. “I had players like Wisey, Kevin Hitchcock and Michael Duberry to look up to and they looked after me. It meant a lot. These players enabled me to be me.” Now, of course, the club have bred their own colony of extra-warm toilet-dwarves to do the job instead.


