http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/mar/17/football-transfer-rumours-luciano-vietto-liverpool

Football transfer rumours: Luciano Vietto to Liverpool?


Everyone is saying it and they’re right: this weekend’s Liverpool-Manchester United clash is big. Actually, it is massive. It is impossible to exaggerate just how massive it is. It is so massive that if for some reason it had to be postponed, the last Sumatran tigers would die and the moon would explode.
 
OK, so it is possible to exaggerate just how massive this match is, but look, it’s still big and it could have serious ramifications for the losers. The defeated side will, for instance, lose ground in the battle for the top four, be forced to listen to triumphalist singing from rivals who get right up their noses, and run the risk of missing out on the Champions League and, therefore, summer transfer targets.
 
If Manchester United fail to make the Champions League, will they have any chance of attracting Paul Pogba? Juventus claim that United have confided that they would be prepared to pay up to £55m for the player (that would be a strange negotiation strategy if true, just as saying “I’m warning you, if you hit me five times, I’ll hit you back” is a surefire way of getting hit at least four times) but whatever chance they have of luring the player back would surely evaporate if they only had the Europa League to offer by way of midweek fun. Especially as Chelsea are also on the Frenchman’s trail.
 
United also want to impress the Brazilian attacking midfielder Roberto Firmino, who is currently tearing up the Bundesliga with Hoffenheim. And they’re also eyeing up Paulo Dybala, a 21-year-old Argentinian striker who has been described as “the new Sergio Agüero” by some observers and as “our property for whom you’ll have to pay tens of millions of pounds” by everyone at Palermo. Liverpool also want the player so you could say that this weekend’s match is a fight for the boy’s affections. Perhaps Jeremy Kyle should referee?
 
Liverpool, mind you, have an alternative in mind, namely Villarreal’s Luciano Vietto, another 21-year-old Argentinian striker, who, now that you mention it, has probably also been described as “the new Sergio Agüero”.
 
Alan Pardew wants to bolster Crystal Palace’s attack by making Loïc Remy the new Glenn Murray.
 
Pardew’s old club hope they can impress Marseille’s Andre Ayew with a big salary and long holidays, which usually begin around early February for Newcastle players.
 
Atlético Madrid want to persuade Chelsea to give them back Filipe Luís and pretend that transfer never happen.
 
Finally, David Moyes could be on his way back to Old Trafford – when West Ham play there next season, as the Londoners are considering hiring the Scot to replace Sam Allardyce.


