http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/04/chelsea-premier-league-title-terry-hazard-mourinho

Chelsea’s 2014-15 Premier League title-winning squad: how they rate | Dominic Fifield

Thibaut Courtois  
An impressive first season in England after his loan spells with Atlético Madrid for a player set to be Chelsea’s No1 for the foreseeable future. The blips have been infrequent, limited largely to a few games in the spring, with Courtois mature, imposing and excellent with his shot-stopping.
 
Appearances 30 Clean sheets 13 Rating 8/10
 Petr Cech  
Has never grumbled or complained at his relegation to understudy, and has excelled whenever called upon by the first-team. His clean sheet record speaks for itself. Will probably leave in the summer but will depart with a fourth league title and with the club’s blessing. Cech has plenty still to offer an elite club in any European league.
 
Apps 5 (1) Clean sheets 5 Rating 7/10
 Branislav Ivanovic  
An ever-present to date, all aggressive running down the right and snarl in the tackle. Now a mainstay of this side, a core member of the team and in the dressing room. He has tired over recent weeks, but Mourinho leans heavily upon him. There should be contract talks at the start of next season aimed at prolonging his stay beyond 2016.
 
Apps 35 Goals 4 Rating 8/10
 Filipe Luís  
A difficult first season in English football, the Brazilian having struggled to dislodge Azpilicueta at left-back and seeing his opportunities severely limited. Is a reliable back-up, but the signing from Atlético Madrid will have been dissatisfied with his role and will seek more involvement, either at Chelsea or not, in future.
 
Apps 7 (6) Goals 0 Rating 5/10
 Kurt Zouma 
Hugely promising at centre-half, and has proved effective at times in a make-shift role in defensive midfield. Mourinho has earmarked him as Terry’s long-term replacement and there should be greater opportunities in his favoured position next term. Already something of a cult figure with the supporters.
 
Apps 6 (8) Goals 0 Rating 6.5/10
 Gary Cahill  
Endured a dubious run of form over the Festive season which briefly cost him his place, but recovered his poise in the League Cup final. His partnership with Terry is the rock on which this team is built, the younger man revelling in the captain’s company.
 
Apps 31 (2) Goals 1 Rating 7/10
 John Terry  
Given the doubts which had surrounded the captain only two years ago, largely born of fitness issues, this has arguably been his finest campaign. Consistently excellent and inspirational, and an ever-present, he has dragged his team-mates through tight contests. No other English centre-half can match the excellence of his form this term.
 
Apps 35 Goals 4 Rating 9/10
 César Azpilicueta  
Once a stop-gap left-back, he is now long established as Chelsea’s first-choice in the position. Quick and eager on the counter, a fine reader of the game, and utterly reliable. Even with Ryan Bertrand’s excellence, the Spaniard’s was a baffling omission from the PFA’s Premier League team of the season.
 
Apps 28 Goals 0 Rating 7.5/10
 Cesc Fàbregas      Cesc Fàbregas celebrates after Chelsea wrapped up the Premier League. Photograph: Tom Jenkins for the Guardian    
A conveyor-belt of assists, whether operating from deep or in a No10 berth, and a key signing from Barcelona last summer. When on form he knits together the Chelsea attack. Has tired over the last few months but is still able to conjure a defence splitting pass, and his contribution should not be overlooked.
 
Apps 31 (1) Goals 3 Rating 8/10
 Ramires  
The Brazilian once felt so integral to Chelsea, but this has been a bit-part of a season. Mourinho has used his energy in trickier fixtures, either from deep or out wide right, but it has been Ramires’ least impressive campaign to date for the club and he has slipped down the pecking order.
 
Apps 11 (12) Goals 2 Rating 6/10
 Oscar  
Began the season as first-choice No10 but, after injuries and illness, has not completed a full 90 minutes since 27 January. Indeed, his form has rather wilted in the second half of the season, arguably for the third year running, to suggest he still has some convincing to do.
 
Apps 26 (2) Goals 6 Rating 6/10
 Eden Hazard 
Irrepressible and irresistible throughout. The PFA’s player of the season has provided this team’s forward propulsion, the Belgian consistently excellent and durable where others among the forward ranks have succumbed, and has allied industry to innate skill. He can achieve anything in the game, so scintillating are his talents.
 
Apps 35 Goals 14 Rating 9/10
 Mikel John Obi  
Now feels like a veteran at the club, even if his campaign has been hampered by injuries as he shivers in Matic’s shadow. Still Mourinho’s go-to man from the bench when he is seeking to shut up a contest, but a bit-part role throughout.
 
Apps 4 (12) Goals 0 Rating 4/10
 Nemanja Matic  
Such an important addition last season, the Serb has been outstanding this term as a defensive shield in midfield, intercepting and breaking up opposition rhythm with that rangy style of his. He was sorely missed when absent through suspension. A bargain even at £21m.
 
Apps 33 Goals 1 Rating 8.5/10
 Willian 
Some query his relevance, given he is neither prolific nor a regular creator of chances, but Mourinho delights in the Brazilian’s work-rate and energy. That is often needed given Ivanovic’s desire to maraud forward, with the onus on Willian to pester and harry opponents. He generally does his job effectively.
 
Apps 26 (8) Goals 2 Rating 7/10
 Juan Cuadrado  
Peripheral as he settles in since his £26m arrival from Fiorentina in mid-season. Chelsea will be patient and allow him time, hoping to glean more from the Colombian next year. In truth, his impact to date has been negligible.
 
Apps 3 (6) Goals 0 Rating 4/10
 Didier Drogba  
There have been times when it has been a hard watch to witness a once great player labour through Premier League occasions, but Drogba has worked as hard as ever, been a strong voice in the dressing room, and has scored goals against Manchester United and Spurs en route. Another league title provides a fine swansong.
 
Apps 7 (20) Goals 4 Rating 6/10
     Chelsea players celebrate winning the league. Photograph: Tom Jenkins for the Guardian    Loïc Rémy 
Would have expected to play more of a role than he has, and was cruelly struck down by a calf complaint just as his opportunity arrived in the run-in, but has always been a threat in the cameos he has been granted. Whether he will endure a second season on the sidelines remains to be seen.
 
Apps 4 (12) Goals 5 Rating 6.5/10
 Diego Costa  
Took to Premier League football like a natural, all aggression and ferocious intent. Led the line magnificently, enjoying a prolific start, before the hamstring issues took their toll. He is a marked man in terms of discipline and will have to work on that again next year, but he proved himself the striker the side had missed last year.
 
Apps 23 (1) Goals 19 Rating 8/10
 Manager: José Mourinho 
Recruited early and efficiently last summer, and planned meticulously in pre-season to start the campaign with a charge. His team were expansive until injuries and suspensions left them blunted, but the manager’s pragmatic approach ensured they remained a consistent threat. As canny and effective as ever.
 
Rating: 9/10


