http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/03/merseyside-derby-everton-liverpool-go-ahead-police-kickoff

Everton v Liverpool to go ahead with 5.30pm kick-off on Saturday


The match between Everton and Liverpool will go ahead as planned on Saturday after police withdrew their objection to the 5.30pm kick-off.
 
Merseyside police’s deputy chief constable, Andy Cooke, told the Liverpool Echo that the late start would cost an extra £50,000 to police and it is important to make a stand against football matches being moved to the possible detriment of public safety.
 
“There’s plenty of evidence that the later the kick-off the more disorder we get,” he said. “People in pubs across the city will be watching the game, a lot of them will be drinking for a long time prior to kick-off.”
 
He said the force would need to put more police on duty for a 5.30pm kick-off at the ground and around Liverpool. “The cost of that operation to date would be £78,500 and at least £50,000 of that would not be recoverable from the club. There is no doubt that the late kick-off, to facilitate the match being played on live TV, would significantly stretch our resources.”
 
The police application was withdrawn during a court hearing after Everton agreed to increase segregation inside Goodison Park.
 
The fixture will have the latest start on a Saturday for 15 years and police were concerned the timing would increase the risk of disorder. It is being shown live on Sky Sports and the late kick-off was agreed following consultations between the broadcaster and the Premier League.
 
Liverpool’s mayor, Joe Anderson, had asked the Premier League to bring forward the kick-off time but his request was rejected.
 
The police, who have classified the game as having a high risk of disorder, had also asked Liverpool council’s licensing committee to amend the terms of the ground safety certificate so the match would start at lunchtime. That request was turned down last week.
 
Merseyside police claims its resources will be stretched and the derby should kick off no later than 2pm. There will be double the usual number of police units at the match and Everton will have 430 club stewards along with 50 agency stewards working at the game.


