http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/jan/02/steven-gerrard-announces-leaving-liverpool

Steven Gerrard: ‘Leaving Liverpool has been the toughest decision of my life’


Steven Gerrard has formally announced that he is to leave Liverpool at the end of the season.
 
The midfield captain, who will turn 35 in May, is out of contract in the summer and despite being offered a new deal, he has decided the time is right to leave and pursue a fresh challenge.
 
Gerrard, who scored two penalties in Liverpool’s 2-2 draw against Leicester on New Year’s Day, is immediately free to talk to foreign clubs.
 
Liverpool announced the news in a tweet on Friday, saying: “LFC can confirm that Steven Gerrard is to leave the club at the end of the 2014-15 season.”
 
In a statement on their website the club added: “Gerrard will not retire from professional football at the conclusion of the 2014-15 season. No decision on his new club has been made yet, but he will continue his career outside the United Kingdom and at a side that will not bring him into direct competition with Liverpool.”
       
Explaining his decision, Gerrard thanked his manager Brendan Rodgers and said: “This has been the toughest decision of my life and one which both me and my family have agonised over for a good deal of time.
 
“I am making the announcement now so that the manager and the team are not distracted by stories or speculation about my future.
     Steven Gerrard arrives at Melwood on Friday. Photograph: Andrew Yates/Reuters    
“Liverpool Football Club has been such a huge part of all our lives for so long and saying goodbye is going to be difficult, but I feel it’s something that’s in the best interests of all involved, including my family and the club itself.
 
“I’m going to carry on playing and although I can’t confirm at this stage where that will be, I can say it will be somewhere that means I won’t be playing for a competing club and will not therefore be lining up against Liverpool – that is something I could never contemplate.
 
“My decision is completely based on my wish to experience something different in my career and life and I also want to make sure that I have no regrets when my playing career is eventually over.”
 
He added: “It is a very special place to be part of. It is my sincere hope and wish that one day I can return to serve Liverpool again, in whatever capacity best helps the club.”
 
His manager said: “It is almost an impossible task to find the words to appropriately sum up Steven Gerrard and his importance to Liverpool.
       
“This is an era where the word ‘legend’ is vastly overused, but in his case it actually doesn’t do him justice.”
 
Gerrard has not yet decided on a future destination, but a move to Major League Soccer has long been rumoured and Los Angeles Galaxy are said to be interested, as are clubs in the Middle East.
 
His close friend Jamie Carragher wrote on Twitter on Thursday night: “Sad day for LFC &amp; English football with the Gerrard news, I think it’s the right decision all things considered.”
 
Gerrard joined Liverpool as an eight-year-old and has made 695 appearances and scored 180 goals, winning 11 trophies with the pinnacle being lifting the Champions League in 2005. He made his first-team debut in 1998 and was made captain in 2003.
       
Liverpool’s owners described his contribution to the club as “beyond measure”.
 
The principal owner John W Henry and chairman Tom Werner jointly said: “His contribution to the club is almost beyond measure and it’s testimony to his influence, that despite Liverpool having such a long and distinguished list of legendary figures, the name Steven Gerrard will always be at the summit.
 
“Steven will always have a part to play for this club, as and when the time comes that he wishes to return.”
  
 Related: Steven Gerrard makes right call in ending a remarkable Liverpool career | Daniel Taylor 
   Steven Gerrard’s roll of honour 
Liverpool:
 
FA Cup (2): 2001, 2006
 
League Cup (3): 2001, 2003, 2012
 
Community Shield (1): 2006
 
Champions League (1): 2005
 
Uefa Cup (1): 2001
 
Uefa Super Cup (1): 2001
 
Individual:
 
Professional Footballers’ Association player of the year (1): 2006
 
Professional Footballers’ Association young player of the year (1): 2001
 
PFA team of the year (8): 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2014
 
Football Writers’ Association footballer of the year (1): 2009
 
Uefa club footballer of the year (1): 2005
 
MBE: 2007


