http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/25/premier-league-2014-15-innovations-future

Premier League 2014-15 review: innovations for the future | Ian McCourt


Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2014-15 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories.
 
We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Tuesday 26 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
 Only captains can speak to the referee 
Manchester City do these tunnel cam videos on YouTube. You see the players arriving in their tracksuits complete with their over-sized headphones on and expensive earrings. You see them going to warm up and you see them greeting each other in the tunnel before going out. You also see the captains going into the match officials’ room to talk before the game. No other players, just the captains. This is how it is off the pitch and this is how it should be on the pitch. Said captain should be the only one able communicate with the referee, to have decisions explained by the referee and to pass on what the referee says to his players. The rest of the players should keep quiet and keep their distance. Should anyone transgress this rule, show them a red card. They’ll soon learn.
 A better ticket deal for fans 
It’s pretty simple this one. With the new TV deal, the Premier League and the clubs have lots and lots and lots of money. The Premier League and the clubs also have lots and lots and lots of fans who cannot go to the games because the ticket prices are too high. (This is especially true of young fans who tend to bring a lot more noise and atmosphere to stadiums.) You can see where this is going, can’t you? For once, dear Premier League, abandon the Gordon Gekko approach. Give something back and make the game more affordable for people all around the country. And while we are at it, every club adopting the FSF’s Twenty’s Plenty idea would be a most welcome move too. But fans, you have a responsibility too. If your club is charging too much, organise en masse, protest and boycott. They, too, will soon learn.
 Four relegation places 
More relegation please. Not much more. Just one more. It would give more sides in the Championship a chance to get into Premier League and enjoy the riches that accompany promotion. It would also make for a more enjoyable end of season spectacle and scare the living daylights out of a few clubs that probably should have dropped down a division some time ago.
 Reform the loan system 
It’s a mess, a real mess, and the entire thing needs to be revised. Some suggestions. Only allow players under the age of 20 to be available for loans. Restrict the number of players a club can allow to go on loan and restrict the number of players a club can accept on loan. Do not allow loans between two clubs in the same division as it compromises the individual players. Redrawing the rules on squad numbers – 35 maximum? – would also help as the bigger clubs would be forced to be more selective about whom they sign and not just be able to land-grab who they want.
 Two referees 
“At the moment, with the pace of the modern game continuing to increase, it is hard for a referee to keep track of everything around him while still trying to keep an eye on what is going on 50 yards away.” That was the Uefa chief executive, Gerhard Aigner, and those words are from more than 10 years ago. He had a point then and he has a point now. The game has become quicker and quicker and it is harder and harder for referees to keep pace with the players. Having two on-pitch officials would cut down the workload, would reduce mistakes and would make the job much easier for all involved.
 Check out the other categories 
Pundit of the season
 
Match of the season
 
Signing of the season
 
Manager of the season
 
Flop of the season
 
Player of the season
 
Goal of the season
 
Gripe of the season
 
Referee of the season


