http://www.theguardian.com/football/blog/2015/may/25/premier-league-2014-15-gripe-of-season

Premier League 2014-15 review: gripe of the season | Barry Glendenning


Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2014-15 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories.
 
We have nominated some contenders, but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Tuesday 26 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
 The poor standard of corner kicks 
Considering how good they are at other aspects of the game, the number of players who seem incapable of sending a decent delivery into the penalty area from corners continues to beggar belief. Clearing the first man at the near post is not a particularly difficult skill to master, but one that remains beyond the wit of an astonishing number of Premier League players. While there is no shortage of offenders to choose from, Chelsea’s win over Manchester United in April was a masterclass in ineptitude from the quadrant, with players from both teams under- or overcooking their corner kicks ad nauseum until the substitute Ángel Di María finally teed up Wayne Rooney for a header in the 83rd minute. It went over the bar, but that’s beside the point – at least he was presented with an opportunity to miss. It is infuriating; sort it out, chaps.
 The bullying of players who want to move clubs  
Having decided, like hundreds of millions of workers before him, that he would like to leave one place of employment to earn more money and embrace new opportunities at another, Raheem Sterling has become a target of abuse for a worrying number of imbeciles who think it’s OK to torment and harass somebody for trying to better their lot in life. Sterling is not the first footballer to have been subjected to this sort of tribal stupidity and he won’t be the last, with every football club boasting its own share of one-eyed crazies who become outraged to the point of apoplexy if somebody they consider one of their own decides to take his business elsewhere. Whatever their motivations for moving on and however it pans out, Sterling and others are entitled to make their decisions without being subjected to the kind of mindless abuse that could result in the perpetrators being taken away and locked up in some manner of secure institution if they directed it at anyone attempting to make strides in a more mundane walk of life.
 Premier League sides abusing the loan system  
In theory the concept of the loan system is flawless: big clubs get game time and match experience into the legs of players who would otherwise be stagnating in the reserves or on the sidelines, while the smaller clubs to whom they are loaned get the use of of personnel they could not otherwise afford.
 
However, it is when one sees Premier League clubs, with all the money that has been hosed their way in recent years, borrowing players in a bid to make up for their own shortcomings in the transfer market that the nostrils begin to wrinkle with distaste. The stockpiling of footballers by mega-rich clubs so that other mega-rich clubs can’t have them has become a major problem in Premier League football. Preventing such clubs from loaning out these players to other teams lower down the division would help return some much-needed integrity to the game and see more quality players filter down through the lower tiers of the English game.
 Ticket prices remain way too expensive  
Over to you, Football Supporters Federation. Keep up the (£20) sterling work.
 Half-and-half scarves  
The unacceptable face of football neckwear, these garish polyester aberrations have become a source of great fury among right-thinking football folk who are mystified and enraged by their growing status as over-priced souvenir staples outside football grounds the length and breadth of the UK. It is a completely irrational, but almost entirely understandable anger. The madness of “friendship” scarves must be stopped.
 
• Check out the other categories:
 
Pundit of the season
 
Match of the season
 
Signing of the season
 
Manager of the season
 
Innovations for the future
 
Player of the season
 
Flop of the season
 
Referee of the season


