http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/08/blackburn-rovers-liverpool-fa-cup-match-report

Blackburn Rovers 0-1 Liverpool | FA Cup sixth-round replay report


Liverpool have worn the look of the condemned since their Champions League pursuit faltered at Arsenal on Saturday but the last rites on their season were not administered at Blackburn Rovers.
 
Aston Villa at Wembley, not another bout of soul-searching, beckon for Brendan Rodgers after Philippe Coutinho’s 70th-minute goal won this FA Cup contest. Coutinho proved the match-winner in the quarter-final replay just as he had at Bolton Wanderers in round four and Liverpool’s belief in FA Cup destiny was only enhanced by the final act of a close-fought match.
 
Ewood Park’s biggest crowd in four years held its breath as Simon Eastwood, the Blackburn goalkeeper, had one last chance to secure extra-time having raced forward to the Liverpool box for a 94th-minute throw-in. His powerful drive flew through a crowded area but was stopped on the line at the second attempt by his opposite number, Simon Mignolet.
 
Rovers’ dream of a third top-flight scalp and of marking the 20th anniversary of their Premier League title success at Wembley was over. Liverpool, plunged from soaring optimism into misery by two consecutive league defeats, remained on course for the first piece of silverware of the Rodgers’ era.
 
“We have been heavily criticised and disappointed in the last two games because of the standards we had set,” the Liverpool manager said. “We knew this was vital for us and for the supporters. This was to give them the hope that we are still progressing, but you have to win matches and trophies to do that. As a team we wanted it. It wasn’t about saving our season. We want to compete at the top end of the league and win trophies.”
 
Rodgers described Liverpool’s performance as “outstanding” and Raheem Sterling as “absolutely incredible” despite the lack of quality on display until Coutinho swapped passes with the impressive Jordan Henderson and found Eastwood’s far corner. The exaggeration spoke of a manager seeking to restore confidence after the blows of Arsenal and Manchester United.
 
“Dejan Lovren and Glen Johnson haven’t played much recently but were outstanding, Joe Allen was magnificent,” added the manager. “Jordan Henderson was too, despite not having much sleep and having to go back from the hotel because his partner had their second child – a daughter – last night. Some players would have missed the game but Jordan said to me: ‘Boss, as soon as the baby is out I will be coming back.’”
 
Henderson was a dynamic influence on the Liverpool performance throughout, the team’s captain in the absence of the suspended Steven Gerrard providing much-needed bite and creativity.
 
The onus may have been on Gary Bowyer to commit more men forward on home soil yet with Rudy Gestede restricted to a substitute’s role by a hamstring problem, solidity and patience were again Blackburn’s priorities. Liverpool made a composed start as a consequence and controlled possession without seriously troubling Eastwood until taking a firm grip on the game 10 minutes before the interval.
 
Rodgers’ problems concerned the options at his disposal rather than any clear evidence of confidence or form draining. Having denied Liverpool’s 3-4-2-1 formation had contributed to recent below-par displays, the manager reverted to a four-man defence for the first time since December. The suspensions of Emre Can and Martin Skrtel may have influenced that decision but Rodgers lost the third member of his first-choice back three, Mamadou Sakho, after only 28 minutes to a hamstring injury. Not that it appeared a cataclysmic setback given the France international gifted Craig Conway an early chance, one Sakho thwarted with a covering challenge in fairness. Jordan Rhodes had Rovers’ only other opening of a dull first half but sent a free header wastefully over.
           Gary Bowyer praises team after FA Cup exit.    
Liverpool were indebted to Mignolet for keeping the scores level with two fine saves in the second half. The first was an acrobatic, finger-tip stop to prevent Tom Cairney. The second was even better from the resulting corner, a superb reaction save that steered Marshall’s header on to a post. Bowyer claimed Blackburn should have had a penalty as the header brushed Allen’s arm before Mignolet intervened, but it needed forensic analysis to spot the offence.
 
The Ewood atmosphere ignited when Gestede came off the bench to replace Conway and sent Rhodes scurrying clear with his first touch, only for Kolo Toure – Sakho’s replacement – to intervene with a vital challenge. Yet just as the momentum appeared with Blackburn, Liverpool produced the only goal in 180 minutes of the quarter-final.
 
Rovers failed to clear a corner taken by Coutinho and when the ball was returned to the Brazilian he exchanged passes with Henderson before drilling an angled shot through the legs of Matt Kilgallon and in off the far post.


