http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/09/everton-liverpool-derby-premier-league-match-report

Jordon Ibe illuminates stalemate in Steven Gerrard’s final derby day


Roberto Martínez savoured a “fascinating game tactically”, Brendan Rodgers praised Liverpool’s “exciting” attacking threat and one of the few notes made by this observer read “ref changes whistle”. Beauty was in the eyes of the technical areas at Goodison Park, although there was cause for hope in a contest only a proud manager could love.
 
Steven Gerrard was booed on and off his 33rd Merseyside derby by Evertonians scarred by the Liverpool captain’s impact on the fixture he cherishes most. Their resentment had been stirred by the media focus on Gerrard’s final Premier League derby, the television cameras continuing to single him out despite a subdued farewell, yet the truth was there was little else to focus on.
 
Grounds for optimism for the Everton manager lay in the success of stifling tactics that helped his recently porous defence deliver a third consecutive clean sheet, the backline unrecognisable with John Stones and Phil Jagielka back in tandem. Other plus points included midfielder James McCarthy’s return from injury and its liberating effect on Séamus Coleman down the right, while Ross Barkley’s late cameo offered further encouragement.
 
Rarely have an Everton team sat as deep and ceded so much possession in a Goodison derby as Martínez’s men did in the second half on Saturday. Given their alarming form at the turn of the year, however, a back-to-basics approach is as surprising from Martínez as it is overdue. It almost yielded Everton’s first derby win since 2010 when Barkley injected much-needed unpredictability and sprayed the pass of the game out to Coleman, who forced Simon Mignolet into a fine save – his first – in the 87th minute.
 
If Rodgers was frustrated at Liverpool’s failure to turn second-half domination of the ball into clear-cut chances, with Joel Robles making routine stops from Raheem Sterling and the substitute Rickie Lambert, he disguised it well. Jordon Ibe’s performance provided ample compensation.
 
The 19-year-old signed from Wycombe Wanderers excelled on his surprise derby debut, only his second league start for Liverpool, carrying the threat to Everton throughout, striking a post with a venomous drive from 20 yards and almost capitalising on Sterling’s deflected shot across the goalmouth.
 
For 26 minutes Liverpool’s forward line contained Ibe, Sterling and the returning Daniel Sturridge. It’s a prospect that should alert Roy Hodgson and it reflects Rodgers’ inherent belief that British-born talent is not technically inferior to its continental counterparts. “Maybe I have too much belief in young players,” he admitted. “But part of me thinks you never know until you throw in a young player and it doesn’t matter what the game is. This is a real springboard for Jordon Ibe. I would have no qualms about playing Jordon now and there is no greater pressure than a Goodison game with that intensity and he was obviously man of the match.
 
“If you see the young British talent that was out there in this game then you cannot say young British players are not technically and tactically good enough. It is easy for me to put an experienced player in but you should look at the talent on show with some of the British boys. Harry Kane has been the restoration for Tottenham. It is has been Harry Kane and young Ryan Mason, two British players who can play football, press and have got quality.
 
“I’ve said it throughout my coaching life: if coaches want to give these players the opportunity to play in a technical game and a tactical game then they can do it and at a high level.”
 
Liverpool’s clean sheet was the first time they have kept four in a row in the league under Rodgers and featured another commanding performance from Emre Can. However, the result came at a cost before Tuesday’s game against Tottenham, with Philippe Coutinho jarring his knee, Sterling receiving a knock to his foot and Lucas Leiva fearing he could be sidelined for a while having aggravated a thigh injury in the 14th minute.
 
Man of the match Jordon Ibe (Liverpool)


