http://www.theguardian.com/football/2014/aug/24/tottenham-qpr-premier-league-match-report

Tottenham 4-0 QPR | Premier League match report


Harry Redknapp puffed out his cheeks and offered a quick handshake to those in the home dugout at the final whistle, his body language betraying the reality he was considerably more relieved to be departing Tottenham Hotspur this time round. This could not have been an unhappier return for the Queens Park Rangers manager to the club he once took to the Champions League. His current charges were dispatched by a rampant Spurs team relishing life under their latest regime. Glenn Hoddle, Steven Caulker and Bobby Zamora, all former Tottenham men in the visitors’ contingent, must have shared his eagerness to beat a hasty retreat.
 
This was a brutal early-season reminder of just how ruthless life can be in the top flight. QPR, awkward in their recent adoption of Hoddle’s favoured system of three centre-halves, had been ripped to shreds by the interval and the restoration of a four-man rearguard thereafter was far too late to salvage anything from this contest. Already three down with a back three, they duly fell four behind with a back four. QPR never stood a chance. The newly promoted side were always vulnerable, out-manoeuvred in midfield and uncertain at the back, as Spurs’ perfect start to the campaign was maintained.
 
Redknapp wore a haggard look as the thrashing was played out, forever demanding answers from a badgered Kevin Bond at his side as his players wilted out on the pitch. Their season will not be judged on daunting occasions such as these but his little wave to the home support infuriated the visiting support and was ill-conceived and inadequately justified. Indeed, the manner in which his side were overwhelmed from the opening exchanges did not bode well for the months ahead.
 
QPR must adjust to the upgrade in divisions but so must Tottenham’s players to life under Mauricio Pochettino. It will take the Argentinian time to make this team truly his own – a group that eagerly squeezes the ambition from opponents high up the pitch – but two league games into his tenure as the manager, Spurs sit on top of the league and that frenzy of transfer business conducted last year in anticipation of Gareth Bale’s record sale to Real Madrid is finally starting to feel inspired. Those who had laboured last year appear reborn. Etienne Capoue was commanding at the base of the Tottenham midfield, unflustered yet powerful in disrupting what rhythm the visitors could muster. Nacer Chadli, wandering in-field from the flank and timing his arrival cleverly, contributed two neatly taken goals to celebrate this as a fresh start – and then there was Érik Lamela.
 
The Argentinian had made only three Premier League starts last season after his £30m move from AS Roma before injuries – combined with a certain scepticism among the coaching staff – wrecked his chances of making an instantly favourable impression. Yet, having inspired his side to victory in a Europa League qualifying success in Cyprus in midweek, he revelled again.
 
QPR could not cope with his darts into space, invariably fuelled by the outstanding vision, invention and control of Christian Eriksen at his side, with his delivery sharp and accurate. It was his corner that was flicked beyond Rob Green at the near post by Eric Dier, the young defender following up his winner at West Ham the previous weekend. It was Lamela, too, who centred for Chadli to power down his second of the game and beyond the beleaguered QPR goalkeeper to extend the lead further.
 
Pochettino sees more improvement to come from his compatriot. “It’s true that he could improve a lot [from last year] but he’s still young,” said the manager. “Always, for young players arriving in different countries, different cultures, different football, it’s difficult to adapt but he has all the skills and we’re very happy with him. He played a very good game.” Chadli, too, appeared revived. The Belgian winger, a £7m arrival from Twente a year ago, had paved the way for the result by collecting Emmanuel Adebayor’s centre on his chest early on and, as he fell, guiding a right-footed shot beyond Green.
 
The centre had arced over Richard Dunne at the far post, the former Republic of Ireland defender’s discomfort epitomising QPR’s teething troubles with their system. He did not reappear after the interval, Nedum Onuoha dropping in at right-back in a back four, though Spurs were not finished. When Chadli poked Danny Rose free down the left, the full-back’s centre flicked off an anxious Rio Ferdinand on the stretch and was sidefooted home eagerly by Adebayor to register his side’s fourth.
 
Redknapp’s team had threatened only sporadically, Matt Phillips clipping wastefully over the bar, having wriggled away from Younès Kaboul, and Zamora and Caulker spurning chances to glean consolation. That ensured no one in QPR’s ranks with a Tottenham association could look fondly on this return.
 
“Getting beat here is no different to getting beat anywhere else,” added the QPR manager before exiting swiftly stage right.
 
Man of the match Christian Eriksen (Tottenham Hotspur)


