http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/feb/19/tottenham-fiorentina-europa-league-match-report

Tottenham 1-1 Fiorentina | Europa League last 32 first leg match report


This was a night that started so well for Spurs yet ended rather tamely. Mauricio Pochettino’s side are certainly still in this tie but they go to Florence next week having conceded an away goal when they could, in reality, have been celebrating a convincing win.
 
Not even Harry Kane, a second-half substitute here, could inspire a late period of pressure. Instead, Fiorentina played out the game with relative comfort, José María Basanta cancelling out Roberto Soldado’s early goal to give La Viola the edge before an intriguing second leg in Tuscany.
 
Pochettino will rue his team’s inability to capitalise on an opening half-hour which was, from a Tottenham perspective, pulsating. Spurs’ attacking play flowed and the chances came, but after conceding a soft goal in the 36th minute they never quite regained the same rhythm. The evening ended with Pochettino a frustrated spectator on the sideline and with this tie in the balance.
 
“After 90 minutes we were better, we created more chances,” said Pochettino. “But it’s true that in the second half, in the last 15-20 minutes, we maybe didn’t create many chances. It’s a shame because at half-time maybe the team had deserved to score more than one goal and then it was 1-1. We have 90 minutes in Florence to try and win the game.”
 
On replacing Kane in the starting line-up with Soldado, Pochettino said: “We have a lot of games ahead, six in 17 days. It’s difficult. We need to rotate and give the possibility to play for all. It was a very open game. I think that we made a big effort in the first half, a great effort. I’m a little bit disappointed with the result because I thought we could have won.”
 
Spurs started in the same manner that they finished their last home match, a fine victory over Arsenal during which they dominated throughout. It was the same story here early on as Soldado, perhaps surprisingly, shone.
 
The Spaniard has struggled for goals this season but you would not have thought so. Tottenham were rampant and Fiorentina struggled to cope with Andros Townsend and Nacer Chadli on the flanks, both looking to feed Soldado at every opportunity.
 
It was the striker who created Spurs’ best early chance during a first-half of many. Fiorentina had already appeared slightly rattled at the back, with their three-man defence of Stefan Savic, Gonzalo Rodríguez and Basanta often exposed out wide as Soldado slipped Chadli into the penalty area in a central position.
 
The Belgian shuffled and hit a low shot at goal with his right foot, which was well kept out by Ciprian Tatarusanu. However, from the resulting corner Tottenham had their opener. Paulinho drifted the ball to the far post where Soldado was waiting unmarked and the result was emphatic, thumping a low volley into the bottom corner.
 
Quite a finish for man who had not scored since December and, in the 20th minute, he almost added a spectacular second. Christian Eriksen’s deflected cross from the right looped high into the area, where Soldado’s sublime bicycle kick found the arms of Tatarusanu.
 
Spurs were dominant but could not make the pressure pay. Townsend was tormenting Basanta down the right but, in the end, it was the Fiorentina defender who had the last laugh, equalising nine minutes before half-time with a goal that, from Tottenham’s perspective, was a hugely soft one to concede.
 
Soldado cynically tripped Joaquín on the left edge of the penalty area and from the resulting free-kick Vincenzo Montella’s side were level. Matías Fernández whipped in a dangerous ball to the near post and Hugo Lloris could only frantically palm it on to a Fiorentina player. It fell to Basanta, who prodded home from close range.
 
Spurs should have retaken the lead before half-time and were centimetres away from doing so. Soldado’s glancing header was palmed into the path of Chadli by Tatarusanu, but the Belgian could not quite twist his foot around the ball, which scooped up on to the crossbar and bounced back off the line.
 
Montella switched his side to four at the back and the second half almost began disastrously for Spurs, but Mohamed Salah’s first-time effort flew narrowly wide from the edge of the penalty area, the on-loan Chelsea forward unable to hit the target. Spurs, however, were not playing with anywhere near the same tempo as in the opening half-hour.
 
“I think that, all things considered, it was a fair result,” said Montella. “In the first 30 minutes we suffered a little bit, but I think they [Spurs] paid a price for all the energy they expended.
 
“I think it was a fair result, we enjoyed it. I’d like to congratulate my players because it wasn’t easy out there. You need this kind of test as a team, in a stadium like this against a team like Tottenham.”


