http://www.theguardian.com/football/2015/apr/11/tottenham-hotspur-aston-villa-premier-league-match-report

Tottenham Hotspur 0-1 Aston Villa | Premier League match report


The supply teacher returned and he had his revenge. Tim Sherwood had the last laugh. The final whistle blew, there was a wave towards the directors’ box, he shook Mauricio Pochettino’s hand, and then he was marching off towards the jubilant Aston Villa supporters in the away end.
 
Sherwood, needless to say, was determined to enjoy every minute. A few Tottenham Hotspur supporters threw some abuse his way as he walked down the tunnel and Sherwood pumped a fist in their direction. He will rank this victory over the club that sacked him last year as the most enjoyable one of his short managerial career and it must have been uncomfortable viewing for Daniel Levy, Tottenham’s chairman.
 
This was a tactical and motivational triumph for Sherwood. He outmanoeuvred Pochettino, Villa were the more accomplished side, and defeat for Tottenham means their season is in danger of petering out. “It is difficult to fight for the top four,” Pochettino said. “We need to be realistic.”
 
While Tottenham were lowering their sights to the Europa League, Villa were taking another giant stride towards securing their Premier League status. The only blow for Sherwood is that Gabriel Agbonlahor and Ciaran Clark picked up injuries that may rule them out of the FA Cup semi-final against Liverpool next Sunday, while Carlos Sanchez will be suspended at Wembley after his late red card.
 
Yet Villa can worry about that later. This was their first victory at White Hart Lane since 2008 and the identity of their goalscorer was not a surprise. Christian Benteke has been revitalised under Sherwood and he followed up his hat-trick in last Tuesday’s 3-3 draw with Queens Park Rangers by scoring the winner here. It was his eighth goal in his past six matches.
 
The result rarely looked in doubt once Benteke headed Villa into the lead after 34 minutes, although Sherwood was at his wits’ end after Sanchez was shown his second yellow card for scything down Danny Rose in stoppage time. Tempers threatened to boil over and there was a fracas on the pitch, while Sherwood’s assistant, Tony Parks, had to be held back as he tried to confront one of the Tottenham coaches.
 
The afternoon began pleasantly enough. It was like a scene from the red carpet when Sherwood emerged, a mass of photographers huddled around the tunnel in the moments before kick-off, waiting for the grand entrance. He smiled, slapped hands with a member of Tottenham’s backroom staff and found his seat in the dug-out.
 
Were Tottenham guilty of allowing themselves to become distracted by the Sherwood sideshow? Quite possibly. Their defence was nervy without Jan Vertonghen, who was missing because of illness, and it soon became clear that Benteke and Agbonlahor believed that they could expose Tottenham’s vulnerabilities.
 
The warning signs were there for Tottenham when Vlad Chiriches, who was deputising at right-back for Kyle Walker, failed to clear his lines three times in the space of a minute. This was an ordeal for Chiriches, whose confidence is so low that even the most basic tasks were beyond him. The home fans groaned whenever the ball went near the Romanian, Benteke often pulled away to the left to unsettle him, and Villa’s opener came after he conceded possession cheaply inside his own half.
 
Tom Cleverley sprayed a pass out to Leandro Bacuna on the right and his cross was met by Benteke, who took advantage of slack marking to elude Eric Dier and Federico Fazio, before guiding a low header into the far corner. The ball bounced into the net off the inside of the right post and Michel Vorm could only stand and watch as it went past him.
 
Villa could have been out of sight by the break. Agbonlahor burst past the unconvincing Fazio and his shot from the edge of the area struck the left post.
 
Tottenham were creaking. Sherwood used a diamond in midfield, with Sanchez in the screening role and Jack Grealish at the tip of it, and Fabian Delph and Cleverley dominated. Christian Eriksen struggled to find space for Tottenham and Villa were not affected when Clark limped off with a knee injury after a collision with Fazio.
 
Nathan Baker replaced Clark and he performed commendably alongside Ron Vlaar. Villa’s centre-backs kept Harry Kane, Tottenham’s captain, unusually quiet.
 
Danny Rose had Tottenham’s best chance, but Guzan denied him with his feet, and it was a day to forget for Pochettino’s side. There was no spark. They lacked ideas and appear to have run out of steam.
 
They did muster a couple of threatening moments after the break, Rose seeing a shot deflected wide and Kane bending an effort over, but Delph should have wrapped up the points when he ran clear near the end. He could not beat Vorm, however, and Villa steeled themselves for a frantic finale.
 
Yet they were stout. Vlaar was the game’s outstanding performer and Guzan did not have to make a serious save in the Villa goal.
 
Sherwood turned a deep shade of green when the fourth official’s board showed five minutes of stoppage time, but the celebrations were not far away.
  
 Related: West Bromwich Albion 2-3 Leicester City | Premier League match report 
   
 Related: Sunderland 1-4 Crystal Palace | Premier League match report 
 

